25-1054 (L)
United States v. Greebel



                 United States Court of Appeals
                    For the Second Circuit

                                  August Term 2025
                                 Argued: May 7, 2026
                                 Decided: July 29, 2026

                           Nos. 25-1054 (Lead), 25-1361 (Con)


                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

                                       Appellee,

    UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY, INTERNAL REVENUE
                             SERVICE,

                               Interested Party-Appellee,

                                           v.

                                    EVAN GREEBEL,

                                 Defendant-Appellant.*


                 Appeal from the United States District Court
                    for the Eastern District of New York


*
 The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the caption as set forth
above.



                                          1
               No. 15-cr-637-2, Kiyo A. Matsumoto, Judge.


Before:       PÉREZ and NATHAN, Circuit Judges, and KATZMANN,
              Judge. †

      Defendant appeals from the district court’s order denying the
parties’ proposed stipulated orders of garnishment of the defendant’s
retirement accounts to enforce a criminal restitution order.          The
district court held that the parties’ proposal—the product of a
settlement between the defendant and the Government—exceeded
the scope of this Court’s prior mandate, and it directed that the funds
be liquidated and distributed according to its own procedure. The
district court also held, in denying the defendant’s motion for a stay
of the distribution, that the defendant lacks standing to challenge the
distribution because his property interest in the funds transferred to
the Government upon liquidation. We hold that (1) the case remains
a live controversy notwithstanding the liquidation of the retirement
accounts and (2) the Court’s prior mandate does not bar approval of
the parties’ proposed stipulated orders of garnishment. REVERSED.


                                          THOMAS R. PRICE (Varuni
                                          Nelson, Rachel G. Balaban, on
                                          the brief), Assistant United
                                          States Attorneys, for Joseph
                                          Nocella, Jr., United States
                                          Attorney for the Eastern

†
 Judge Gary S. Katzmann, of the United States Court of International Trade,
sitting by designation.



                                    2
                                        District    of   New    York,
                                        Brooklyn, NY, for the United
                                        States of America, Appellee,
                                        and     the    United   States
                                        Department of the Treasury,
                                        Internal Revenue Service,
                                        Interested Party-Appellee.

                                        AKIVA SHAPIRO, Holtzman
                                        Vogel Baran Torchinsky &
                                        Josefiak PLLC, New York, NY
                                        (Marc Aaron Takagaki, Reed
                                        Brodsky, Gibson, Dunn &
                                        Crutcher LLP, New York, NY,
                                        on the brief), for Evan Greebel,
                                        Appellant.



NATHAN, Circuit Judge:
      This appeal arises from the Government’s efforts to garnish
defendant Evan Greebel’s 401(k) accounts to satisfy a criminal
restitution order. In a prior appeal, we held that Greebel’s accounts
could be garnished, but we remanded for the district court to
determine the extent of Greebel’s interest in (and the Government’s
reciprocal ability to garnish) the accounts in light of the taxes he may
owe for the early withdrawal.
      On remand, rather than litigate the early withdrawal tax
question, the parties purported to settle the dispute instead,
submitting proposed stipulated orders of garnishment for the district




                                  3
court’s approval.
      Nevertheless, in a pair of orders issued February 21, 2025, and
April 10, 2025, the district court rejected the parties’ proposal,
reasoning that it violated this Court’s mandate from the prior appeal.
The district court did so despite the consent to the stipulated orders
of garnishment of Greebel’s victim to whom he owed restitution and
the financial institutions that managed the 401(k) accounts. And in
denying Greebel’s subsequent motion for a stay of the distribution of
his account funds to his victim, the district court also held that
Greebel no longer has standing to pursue this litigation because the
Government has taken over his property interest in the now-
liquidated funds.
      We hold that Greebel had standing to object to the garnishment
of his 401(k) accounts, that the case has not since become moot upon
the liquidation of those accounts, and that the district court erred in
applying the mandate rule to bar the parties’ proposed stipulated
orders of garnishment. We thus reverse the district court’s order and
remand with instructions to approve the parties’ proposed stipulated
orders of garnishment.
                          BACKGROUND
      This appeal marks Greebel’s third in this case, and the second
concerning the garnishment of his retirement accounts. After a jury
trial, Greebel was convicted of conspiracies to commit wire and
securities fraud, based on a scheme he carried out with codefendant
Martin Shkreli to defraud investors of Retrophin, Inc.—now called
Travere Therapeutics, Inc. (Travere). As part of his sentence, Greebel
was ordered to pay $10,447,979 in restitution to Travere. This Court




                                  4
affirmed Greebel’s conviction and sentence on direct appeal. See
United States v. Greebel, 782 F. App’x 72, 74 (2d Cir. 2019) (summary
order).
      Later, to enforce the restitution order, the Government applied
in the district court for writs of garnishment against two of Greebel’s
401(k) accounts held at Charles Schwab & Co. (Charles Schwab) and
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (Merrill Lynch). Greebel
objected, arguing that the accounts could not be garnished because he
lacked a “current, unilateral right to receive payments” under their
terms, and alternatively that the Consumer Credit Protection Act
(CCPA) capped garnishment at 25 percent of the account funds
because they constituted “disposable earnings.” App’x 64–77. The
district court overruled these objections, holding that garnishment of
Greebel’s 401(k) accounts was neither prohibited under the accounts’
plan terms nor capped by the CCPA.
      We agreed. United States v. Shkreli, 47 F.4th 65, 68 (2d Cir. 2022).
Like the district court, we rejected Greebel’s arguments that the 401(k)
plan terms and the CCPA blocked or capped garnishment. See id. at
73–77. We also rejected two other arguments that had cropped up on
appeal—that the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
(ERISA)’s anti-alienation provision, 29 U.S.C. § 1056(d)(1), prohibited
garnishment of Greebel’s retirement funds, and that the early-
withdrawal tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C.
§ 72(t), divested Greebel of a current, unilateral right to access the
funds. See id. at 70–76. As to Section 72(t), though “[w]e agree[d] with
the Government’s contention that the ten-percent early withdrawal
tax does not prevent it from garnishing the retirement funds,” we




                                   5
held also that the early-withdrawal tax, “if imposed, . . . would
qualify as a limit on the defendant’s right to payment of the balance
of those funds.” Id. at 75–76. Because the parties had not yet resolved
whether the tax would apply, we remanded for the district court to
“determine whether the Government's garnishment would trigger
the ten-percent early withdrawal tax, and, if so, the amount subject to
garnishment by the Government.” Id. at 76. And if the parties failed
to “provide clarity” on the question, we explained, “the district court
may wish to direct the liquidation of the retirement account and order
the clerk to reserve a portion of the funds in escrow for the potential
additional tax consequences of the early withdrawal.” Id.
      Ultimately on remand, the parties filed proposed stipulated
orders of garnishment of Greebel’s 401(k) accounts. The proposed
orders reflected the parties’ settlement on a method for garnishing the
funds—the 401(k) accounts would be liquidated, Charles Schwab and
Merrill Lynch would withhold 40 percent to pay any tax
consequences of the liquidation (with 31 percent allocated for federal
taxes and 9 percent for state taxes), and the remaining 60 percent (plus
any tax refund) would be paid to Travere. In exchange, Greebel
agreed to pay any excess tax liability personally.
      On February 21, 2025, the district court rejected the proposed
stipulations, holding that they “ignore[d] the Second Circuit’s
Mandate and this Court’s orders after remand by . . . failing to clarify
whether Mr. Greebel will be subject to the ten-percent early
withdrawal tax,” and “exceed[ed] the scope of the Second Circuit’s
Mandate by proposing that [40 percent] of the cash value of Mr.
Greebel’s interests in the two retirement accounts . . . be paid toward




                                  6
Mr. Greebel’s unspecified federal and state tax liability[.]” App’x
350–51. The district court thus set a deadline for the liquidation of
Greebel’s accounts and asked the parties for briefing on whether the
Section 72(t) early withdrawal tax would apply, clarifying that
Greebel would be required to “litigate any other tax liabilities before
the Tax Court[.]” Id. at 353. And the district court directed the parties
to notify the victim, Travere, of the garnishment proceedings and of
its right to be heard. But the district court adjourned the deadline
after the parties wrote back, again urging approval of the settlement
and also raising a concern that the district court’s approach would
render Charles Schwab and Merrill Lynch liable under a provision of
the Internal Revenue Code obligating a “payor” of an “eligible
rollover distribution” to “withhold from such distribution an amount
equal to 20 percent of such distribution.” See 26 U.S.C. § 3405(c)(1).
      The parties, Charles Schwab, Merrill Lynch, and Travere
responded by letter; none objected to the proposed stipulated orders
of garnishment. Greebel and the Government urged adoption of the
settlement, which they argued was a fair and non-collusive resolution
of their disagreement about the applicability and effect of the tax
liabilities that would stem from liquidating the 401(k) accounts.
Charles Schwab and Merrill Lynch did not object to the settlement,
either, insofar as it allowed them to reserve 20 percent of the
liquidated funds to avoid violating Section 3405(c)(1).         Travere
likewise did not object, on the belief that the settlement was reached
to avoid Greebel, Charles Schwab, or Merrill Lynch from owing taxes




                                   7
“exclusively [because of] the liquidation of [Greebel’s] accounts[.]” 1
App’x 364.
        The district court again rejected the parties’ proposal, holding
that it violated this Court’s mandate. The district court ordered that
Greebel’s 401(k) accounts be liquidated, that Charles Schwab and
Merrill Lynch withhold 20 percent of the funds to satisfy their
obligations under Section 3405(c)(1), that the clerk further withhold
10 percent of the liquidated funds to pay any tax owed under Section
72(t), and that the remainder be distributed to Travere. Greebel
timely appealed. In the meantime, the district court denied Greebel’s
motion for a stay of the distribution to Travere, reasoning that a stay,
too, would violate this Court’s mandate and that Greebel lacked
standing because his 401(k) accounts had already been liquidated.
This Court stayed the distribution pending appeal on November 13,
2025.
                              DISCUSSION
        The Mandatory Victim Restitution Act (MVRA) obligates
district courts to order criminal restitution (or, the requirement that a
convicted defendant compensate his victim) for a slew of listed
offenses.    See 18 U.S.C. § 3663A.      The Government’s options for
enforcing a restitution order include garnishment (or, the court-
ordered seizure of one’s property held by another) as spelled out in
the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA).              See 18 US.C.


1
 Travere also proposed language to the proposed stipulated orders of
garnishment clarifying that any tax refund generated by the liquidation of
Greebel’s 401(k) accounts be paid to it, rather than to offset “any other tax
debt Mr. Greebel may owe.” App’x 364–65.



                                     8
§ 3613(a); 28 U.S.C. § 3205(a).          Under the latter statute, the
Government may apply to a district court for a writ of garnishment
against a convicted defendant’s property to be served on the
garnishee (or, holder) of that property, who must file an answer to the
writ; then, the defendant may file objections to the garnishee’s
answer. See 28 U.S.C § 3205(c). Because federal courts lack inherent
power to order restitution, their authority in this area derives only
from statute. United States v. Gushlak, 728 F.3d 184, 190 (2d Cir. 2013).
      The last time this case reached the Court, we decided that at
least some of Greebel’s 401(k) funds may be garnished to satisfy his
restitution order. See Shkreli, 47 F.4th at 68. On appeal now is the
district court’s choice between two methods of garnishing Greebel’s
401(k) accounts: one proposed by the parties and consented to by the
garnishees and victim, and another created by the district court. 2 The
district court, concluding that the parties’ agreement violated this
Court’s prior mandate, ordered garnishment using its own
procedure. And in denying Greebel’s motion for a stay of that order,
the district court held that Greebel lacks standing to continue this
litigation because his property interest in the now-liquidated 401(k)
funds has transferred to the Government. We review the district
court’s legal rulings underlying these decisions—including its
application of the mandate rule and its standing determination—de
novo. See Shkreli, 47 F.4th at 70; Knight v. City of New York, 164 F.4th
173, 177 (2d Cir. 2026); Burrell v. United States, 467 F.3d 160, 163 (2d
Cir. 2006).

2
 “An order of garnishment is final and appealable.” United States v. Liounis,
179 F.4th 124, 127 n.7 (2d Cir. 2026).



                                     9
   We hold, unlike the district court, that this case presents a live
controversy and that our prior mandate does not foreclose approval
of the parties’ chosen garnishment method.             And because these
holdings together dispose of the case as the parties have presented it
to us, we reverse the district court’s order without reaching any other
issues.
   A. Article III’s Case-or-Controversy Requirement
       The Court has an independent and ongoing obligation to assure
itself of its subject-matter jurisdiction, as delimited by Article III’s
case-or-controversy requirement. Marquez v. Silver, 96 F.4th 579, 582
(2d Cir. 2024); see also Klein ex rel. Qlik Techs., Inc. v. Qlik Techs., Inc.,
906 F.3d 215, 220 (2d Cir. 2018). That “limitation on our jurisdiction,
and its focus on parties’ stakes in the action, manifests in three distinct
legal inquiries: standing, mootness, and ripeness.” Klein, 906 F.3d at
221. “Standing doctrine evaluates a litigant’s personal stake as of the
outset of litigation,” while “mootness doctrine determines what to do
if an intervening circumstance deprives the plaintiff of a personal
stake in the outcome of the lawsuit, at any point during litigation after
its initiation.” Id. at 221 (cleaned up). Though no party addresses the
issue now, the district court held that Greebel lacks standing to
continue his challenge to the district court’s garnishment procedure
because his interest in the liquidated 401(k) funds has transferred to
the Government by operation of the MVRA. We depart from the
district court’s jurisdictional holding for two reasons.
       First, the district court erred in holding that intervening
events—here, the liquidation of Greebel’s accounts—rendered him
without standing. Greebel no doubt had standing at the outset of




                                     10
these garnishment proceedings to object to the seizure of his
retirement funds. See Collins v. Ne. Grocery, Inc., 149 F.4th 163, 171 (2d
Cir. 2025) (noting a loss in retirement funds as a cognizable Article III
injury); see also 28 U.S.C. § 3205(c)(5) (providing for debtors to make
objections during garnishment proceedings). What came next is not
relevant for standing purposes, because “post-filing changes in
circumstance cannot deprive a plaintiff”—or, here, an objector—“of
standing.” Doe v. McDonald, 128 F.4th 379, 385 (2d Cir. 2025). Instead,
“[t]he consequences of losing a stake in ongoing litigation are
determined . . . by asking whether the action has become moot.” Klein,
906 F.3d at 220–21 (emphasis in original).
      Second, though the district court did not consider whether the
case has become moot, we hold that it has not. “[A] case becomes
moot only when it is impossible for a court to grant any effectual relief
whatever to the prevailing party.” Chafin v. Chafin, 568 U.S. 165, 172
(2013) (quotation marks omitted). That occurs if “the issues presented
are no longer live or the parties lack a legally cognizable interest in
the outcome[.]” Doe, 128 F.4th at 385 (quotation marks omitted).
Greebel’s appeal is not moot. Even accepting the district court’s
theory that a debtor loses his property interest in funds once they are
liquidated but not yet distributed, Greebel retains an interest in the
liquidated funds being used to satisfy his tax obligations, else he will
personally incur a higher tax bill as a result. See Clinton v. City of New
York, 524 U.S. 417, 432 (1998) (holding that the elimination of a
statutory tax benefit constituted an economic injury sufficient to
satisfy Article III’s standing requirement). Because the Court retains
the ability to enter “effectual relief” by directing the district court to




                                   11
divert more of the liquidated 401(k) funds to satisfy Greebel’s tax
liability, the “dispute is still very much alive.” Chafin, 568 U.S. at 172–
73. Assured that this appeal presents a live controversy, we turn to
its substance.
   B. The Mandate Rule
      The district court rejected the parties’ proposed stipulated
orders of garnishment because the parties’ preferred method of
liquidating and distributing Greebel’s assets, it thought, “was not an
issue within the scope of the Second Circuit’s remand[.]” App’x 496.
In other words, the district court held that the parties’ proposal
violated what we call the “mandate rule,” which is “a branch of the
law-of-the-case doctrine that rigidly binds the district court, barring
it from considering issues explicitly or implicitly decided on appeal.”
United States v. Aquart, 92 F.4th 77, 87 (2d Cir. 2024) (cleaned up). The
mandate rule likewise prohibits a district court from reaching an issue
that “was ripe for review at the time of an initial appeal but was
nonetheless foregone, . . . unless the mandate can reasonably be
understood as permitting it to do so.” United States v. Ben Zvi, 242
F.3d 89, 95 (2d Cir. 2001). And to interpret our mandate, “a district
court should look to both the specific dictates of the remand order as
well as [its] broader spirit[.]” Yick Man Mui v. United States, 614 F.3d
50, 53 (2d Cir. 2010) (quotation marks omitted).
      Still, the rule “is generally limited to matters actually decided,”
rather than “mere recital of matters assumed for purposes of decision
and dicta[.]” Wright & Miller, 18B Federal Prac. & Proc. § 4478.3 (3d
ed. 2026). Moreover, as with the related law-of-the-case doctrine,
“there is a narrow exception providing [for] reconsideration . . . in




                                    12
compelling circumstances, consisting principally of (1) an intervening
change in controlling law, (2) new evidence, or (3) the need to correct
a clear error of law or to prevent manifest injustice.” United States v.
Valente, 915 F.3d 916, 924 (2d Cir. 2019) (quotation marks omitted).
      We agree with both parties (and disagree with the district
court) that the Court’s prior mandate did not explicitly or implicitly
bar approval of the proposed stipulated orders of garnishment. 3
Recall the focus of Greebel’s earlier appeal—whether ERISA, Section
72(t)’s early-withdrawal tax, or the 401(k) plans’ terms completely
precluded garnishment (or, as with the CCPA, capped it). See Shkreli, 47
F.4th at 68. We rejected all of these arguments, holding that the funds
in Greebel’s 401(k) accounts could be garnished under all applicable
statutes, as well as the terms governing the accounts. See id. at 70–77.
We did not decide, however, the extent of Greebel’s property interest
in the accounts, nor how it might be affected by all of the tax
consequences of liquidating them. This is how we put it:
      We agree with the Government’s contention that the ten-


3
 At times, Greebel’s brief suggests that the district court lacked authority
to consider even whether the mandate rule applies, on the theory that 28
U.S.C. § 3003(b)(2) grants the Government exclusive authority to select the
method of enforcing criminal restitution orders. The Government counters
that the district court retained discretion to modify the proposed writs
under 28 U.S.C. § 3013, which permits district courts to “make an order
denying, limiting, conditioning, regulating, extending, or modifying the
use of any enforcement procedure under” the FDCPA. Because we hold
ultimately that the mandate rule does not bar the parties’ proposal and
reverse for entry of the proposed stipulated writs, we do not reach the issue
of the district court’s discretion to review applications for writs of
garnishment.



                                     13
      percent early withdrawal tax does not prevent it from
      garnishing the retirement funds, but the question
      remains as to whether the early withdrawal tax limits
      Greebel’s right to his retirement funds and thus, the
      Government’s parallel right of access. We agree with the
      Seventh Circuit’s conclusion [that] the ten-percent early
      withdrawal tax does not preclude the Government from
      garnishing the defendant’s retirement funds, but, if
      imposed, it would qualify as a limit on the defendant's
      right to payment of the balance of those funds.
      Accordingly, we remand so that the district court may
      consider these issues in the first instance.
      Specifically, the district court should determine whether
      the Government’s garnishment would trigger the ten-
      percent early withdrawal tax, and, if so, the amount
      subject to garnishment by the Government. To the extent
      the parties do not provide clarity on whether Greebel
      will be subject to the early withdrawal tax, the district
      court may wish to direct the liquidation of the retirement
      account and order the clerk to reserve a portion of the
      funds in escrow for the potential additional tax
      consequences of the early withdrawal.
Id. at 75–76 (citations and parenthetical text omitted). The district
court erred in concluding that this prior mandate prevented approval
of the parties’ settlement.
      First, we read nothing in the remand order to have “explicitly”
required the district court to reject the parties’ proposed allocation of
the tax consequences of garnishing Greebel’s 401(k) accounts. Cf.
Burrell, 467 F.3d at 169 n.7. Given the early posture of the prior
appeal, it is unsurprising that “the panel there had no occasion to




                                   14
decide” the exact scope of Greebel’s interest in his 401(k) funds nor,
by extension, the scope of the Government’s ability to garnish them.
Cf. United States v. Tenzer, 213 F.3d 34, 42 (2d Cir. 2000). Though we
did discuss Section 72(t)’s early withdrawal tax, we invited the district
court to investigate in the first instance whether that tax would apply,
and we did not discuss any other forms of tax liability at all. See
Shkreli, 47 F.th at 75–76. 4 We thus disagree with the district court that
we already “affirmed all aspects of [the] garnishment except for the
share of funds that may need to be set aside for a potential [10 percent]
early withdrawal tax” and that the “remand was limited to one
specific tax issue[.]” App’x 494–95. Other potential issues with the
garnishment—including          who      would      pay    the    income      tax
consequences—were not before us in the prior appeal and remained
undecided on remand.

4
 Our prior appeal did decide that Section 72(t)’s early withdrawal tax, “if
imposed, would qualify as a limit on [Greebel’s] right to payment of the
balance of [the] funds.” Shkreli, 47 F.4th at 76 (citing United States v. Sayyed,
862 F.3d 615, 619 (7th Cir. 2017)). The district court, purporting to apply
this principle, directed that the clerk withhold 10 percent of the amount
received from the garnishees to pay the tax owed under Section 72(t). This
calculation likely overlooked that the clerk would receive only 80 percent
of the liquidated funds from the garnishees (and so the district court
effectively directed the withholding of 8, rather than 10, percent of the
funds to pay the Section 72(t) tax). Moreover, the district court did not
consider whether our prior conclusion that Section 72(t) limited the amount
the Government could garnish from the 401(k) accounts might apply with
equal force to the other taxes that would be generated by liquidation of the
accounts. Because we hold ultimately that the district court erred in not
approving the parties’ agreed-upon proposal for allocating the tax
consequences at issue in this case, we do not reach these potential issues.



                                       15
      To reach a contrary result, the district court purported to follow
what it called the “procedure the Second Circuit prescribed” for
determining the applicability and effect of Section 72(t)’s early
withdrawal tax. Id. at 496. But though our opinion offered the district
court one way of managing the uncertainty posed by the potential
tax—liquidate the funds and reserve some with the Clerk in case the
early withdrawal tax were assessed—we said merely that the district
court “may wish” to follow that recommendation. Shkreli, 47 F.4th at
76. We did not require it, much less prohibit the litigation of all other
issues that may arise in the course of garnishing Greebel’s 401(k)
accounts.
      Second, and separate from the mandate’s “specific dictates,” its
“broader spirit” did not imply a final answer to the tax liability
question, either. Cf. Ben Zvi, 242 F.3d at 95 (quotation marks omitted).
To whatever extent the district court inferred from our opinion that
resolving the case required a definitive answer on Section 72(t), it
should not have read our mandate to prevent the parties, garnishees,
and victim from settling the question instead. Litigants may not, of
course, “circumvent[] . . . lower-court compliance by stipulation,”
and thereby force the district court to take action expressly prohibited
by this Court’s mandate. Slotkin, by Slotkin v. Citizens Cas. Co. of N.Y.,
698 F.2d 154, 155 (2d Cir. 1983) (quotation marks omitted). That is
especially true for settlements, like this one, which require judicial
approval or adoption. See 28 U.S.C. § 3205(a) (granting district courts
the authority to issue writs of garnishment). But in determining what
is “express[ly]” prohibited on remand, cf. Slotkin, 698 F.2d at 155,
district courts must keep in mind “the strong judicial policy in favor




                                   16
of settlements,” In re Painewebber Ltd. P’ships Litig., 147 F.3d 132, 138
(2d Cir. 1998).    That we often write appellate opinions on the
assumption that the parties will continue to litigate, and include
language in our remand orders to guide them on that path, does not
mean that we necessarily intend to prohibit the amicable resolution
of outstanding issues in a case.
      In sum, we hold that our prior mandate in Shkreli neither
explicitly nor implicitly prohibited the district court from entering the
proposed stipulated orders of garnishment on remand. The district
court’s contrary conclusion was error.
   C. Remaining Issues
      As is often the case, the parties’ settlement reflects a negotiated
resolution of many contested issues. Those issues include whether
the Section 72(t) early withdrawal tax applies to the liquidation of a
401(k) account pursuant to a writ of garnishment and who must pay
the income tax obligations arising from such a liquidation.          The
parties, garnishees, and victim do agree, though, that the settlement
reached in this case is fair, non-collusive, and permitted by our
mandate. On “the premise that parties represented by competent
counsel know what is best for them, and are responsible for
advancing the facts and argument entitling them to relief,” United
States v. Sineneng-Smith, 590 U.S. 371, 375–76 (2020) (cleaned up), we
elect not to wade into the many contested issues that informed the
parties’ settlement. We instead reverse the district court’s April 10,
2025 order and remand for entry of the parties’ proposed stipulated




                                   17
orders of garnishment. 5
                             CONCLUSION
       The years-long litigation over the Government’s attempts to
garnish Greebel’s 401(k) accounts has raised a number of complicated
legal issues, many novel to this Circuit. But this appeal requires we
decide only two, on which there is no dispute. First, we hold that, just
as Greebel had standing to challenge the garnishment of his accounts
at the outset of this litigation, the case is not moot following the
liquidation of those accounts. Second, we hold that this Court’s prior
mandate did not bar approval of the parties’ proposed stipulated
orders of garnishment, reached as a result of settlement and
consented to by all interested parties. We thus REVERSE the April
10, 2025 order of the district court, and remand with instructions to
approve the parties’ proposed stipulated orders of garnishment.




5
  Greebel’s motion to supplement the record is denied, as neither of his
requested additions—oral argument audio from a prior appeal and briefing
submitted in connection with a petition for certiorari—is necessary to
correct a material omission or misstatement in the record or to resolve this
appeal. See United States v. Schulz, 517 F.3d 606, 608 (2d Cir. 2008); Fed. R.
App. P. 10(e)(2).



                                     18
