                 FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

HEATHER TURREY, OLIVER                        Nos.
FIATY; JORDAN HERNANDEZ;                    24-3849,
JEFFREY SAZON, individually and             25-2135,
on behalf of all others similarly           25-2137,
situated,                                   25-3454

            Plaintiffs - Appellees,          D.C. No.
                                          3:20-cv-00697-
 v.                                         DMS-AHG

VERVENT, INC., ACTIVATE                     OPINION
FINANCIAL, LLC; DAVID
JOHNSON,

            Defendants - Appellants.

      Appeal from the United States District Court
         for the Southern District of California
       Dana M. Sabraw, District Judge, Presiding
          Argued and Submitted May 18, 2026
                 Pasadena, California
                  Filed August 12, 2026

   Before: Mark J. Bennett, Lucy H. Koh, and Salvador
             Mendoza, Jr., Circuit Judges.

               Opinion by Judge Mendoza
2                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


                          SUMMARY *


            Civil RICO / Statute of Limitations

    The panel affirmed the district court’s judgment after a
jury trial in favor of the plaintiffs in an action under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act against
student loan servicers.
    The panel held that there was sufficient evidence for the
jury to find that the plaintiff borrowers, students of ITT
Technical Institute, a for-profit college, neither knew, nor
reasonably should have known, of their fraud-based injuries
more than four years before they filed suit in April
2020. The initiation of their lawsuit therefore fell squarely
within RICO’s four-year statute of limitations.
     The panel further concluded that the defendants failed to
preserve a proximate causation challenge for appellate
review because the district court’s denial of summary
judgment on this ground turned on disputed factual issues,
and defendants never renewed the challenge at the end of
trial.



                           COUNSEL

Timothy G. Blood (argued), James M. Davis, and Leslie E.
Hurst, Blood Hurst & O'Reardon LLP, San Diego,
California; John J. Grogan, Irv Ackelsberg, and David A.

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                   3


Nagdeman, Langer Grogan & Diver PC, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania; for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
Aileen M. McGrath (argued) and Joel F. Wacks, Morrison
& Foerster LLP, San Francisco, California; Joseph R.
Palmore, Morrison & Foerster LLP, Washington, D.C.;
Matthew H. Ladner, Troutman Pepper Locke LLP, Los
Angeles, California;
John S. Purcell and Douglas E. Hewlett Jr., ArentFox Schiff
LLP, Los Angeles, California; for Defendants-Appellants.



                          OPINION

MENDOZA, JR., Circuit Judge:

    This case asks us to decide a twelve-million-dollar
question: What did the student borrowers know, and when
did they know it?
    Following a two-week-long trial, a Southern California
jury found that a group of student borrowers were victims of
an elaborate scheme that left them making hefty payments
on fraudulent student loans. Now, on appeal, the student
loan servicer Defendants contend that Plaintiffs waited too
long to file their lawsuit. Central to this dispute is the
principle that the law is patient to afford parties time to seek
relief after their injuries, but even the law’s forbearance
expires. That understanding is reflected in the four-year
statute of limitations for bringing civil lawsuits under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (“RICO”)
Act. So, the question in this appeal is when Plaintiffs knew,
4                  TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


or reasonably should have known, enough about their
alleged injury to timely file their civil RICO claim.
    We hold that there was sufficient evidence for the jury to
find that Plaintiffs neither knew, nor should have known, of
their fraud-based injuries more than four years before they
ultimately filed suit in April 2020. The initiation of
Plaintiffs’ lawsuit therefore fell squarely within RICO’s
four-year statute of limitations. We further conclude that
Defendants failed to preserve their proximate causation
challenge for appellate review. We affirm.
            I. BACKGROUND & HISTORY
A. Factual Background
    Before the 2008 financial crisis, for-profit colleges were
on the rise in the United States. Among the largest at the
time was ITT Educational Services, Inc. (“ITT”), a publicly
traded company that operated campuses nationwide and
enrolled tens of thousands of students into ITT Technical
Institute.
    Like many of its peers, ITT depended heavily on federal
student-aid dollars to keep its doors open. The federal
government had historically provided for-profit colleges
with substantial funding in order to continue their
operations. But in 1998, Congress imposed a limit on these
schools’ ability to access federal funding. Under the so-
called “90/10 Rule,” no more than ninety percent of a for-
profit school’s revenue could come from certain federal
government programs. That meant that the remaining ten
percent was required to come from non-federal sources, such
as private entities. The 90/10 Rule reflected the idea that, if
a school’s programs provided genuine value, someone other
than the federal government should be willing to pitch in.
                   TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                   5


     After the 2008 financial crisis, many for-profit
educational institutions’ funding sources collapsed. The
90/10 Rule became difficult to satisfy following the market
crash because private lenders that had previously financed
student loans to for-profit schools largely abandoned the
market. But ITT still needed to secure at least ten percent of
its funding from non-federal sources. So, it responded to the
crash by quietly creating its own source of financing to create
the false impression that it was complying with the 90/10
Rule. In 2010, ITT, with the backing of Deutsche Bank,
established a private student loan program known as
“PEAKS.” The PEAKS program was structured through a
trust fund that sold securities to investors and then used the
proceeds of those transactions to produce loans to students
enrolled in ITT Technical Institute. Over time, the program
issued a staggering 55,000 loans, collectively valued at
roughly $300 million.
    This arrangement was intended to solve two problems at
once. First, as discussed, the PEAKS program generated the
non-federal revenue that ITT needed to maintain compliance
with the 90/10 Rule and access to federal funding. And
second, the arrangement provided students with access to
loans that had become increasingly difficult to obtain from
outside sources after the collapse of the private lending
market.
    But there was a not-so-small catch. The loans, which
appeared to be externally supported by outside investors,
were actually internally backed by substantial guarantees
from ITT itself. Investors agreed to purchase securities
supporting the program because ITT privately assumed
responsibility for significant losses if borrowers failed to
repay their loans. As defaults increased, so too did ITT’s
financial exposure.
6                  TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


    As the PEAKS program continued its operations, ITT’s
student loan servicing responsibilities were eventually
assigned to First Associates Loan Servicing LLC, a company
later known as Vervent, Inc. (“Vervent”). Starting at the end
of 2011, Vervent maintained borrower accounts, processed
payments, communicated with borrowers, reported
information to credit bureaus, and actively administered
collection efforts when borrowers became delinquent.
    For thousands of students, the arrangement appeared
straightforward. They enrolled at ITT to receive an
education, borrowed funds through the PEAKS program to
finance that education, and made payments through Vervent
after entering the repayment process. The program did have
a few oddities, including loan terms that seemed to omit
certain details. Some missing terms of the loan applications
and agreements included the amount of the loan, the interest
rate, the payment plan, and the associated fees. But many of
the documents explained those omissions by noting that the
missing terms would eventually be disclosed in an “approval
disclosure statement.” So, many students continued to
routinely make payments on the loans without any suspicion
that something was wrong.
     But the program began to falter. By late 2011, PEAKS
loans were performing far worse financially than anticipated.
Student borrowers defaulted on their loans at exceptionally
high rates, causing ITT’s guarantee obligations to increase
dramatically. ITT faced mounting liabilities that threatened
its financial condition.
    Rather than disclosing the full extent of those obligations
to the PEAKS program, ITT undertook a series of measures
designed to conceal from its investors, and the government,
the program’s deteriorating condition.           One practice
                  TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                 7


involved covertly making payments on behalf of delinquent
borrowers, which delayed defaults and postponed the
triggering of additional guarantee obligations.
    These payments concealed tens of millions of dollars in
anticipated liabilities and created the impression that the
PEAKS portfolio was performing significantly better than it
actually was. ITT understated the magnitude of future
PEAKS obligations, failed to accurately account for aspects
of the program in its financial statements, and withheld
important information from investors and auditors
concerning the program’s dire condition.
    By early 2014, these problems started to attract
regulatory attention. The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau (“CFPB”) filed a civil action against ITT alleging
that the PEAKS program was “ostensibly run by third
parties” but was “in reality controlled by ITT and backed by
an ITT guarantee that protected those third parties from
loss.” And, in May 2015, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) filed a civil enforcement action
alleging that ITT and senior executives had concealed the
extraordinary failure of the PEAKS program and misled
investors about the resulting financial consequences. Both
the CFPB and SEC actions against ITT eventually settled.
But Vervent was not a part of those actions and continued to
enforce and collect on the PEAKS loans.
    In 2016, ITT collapsed. Facing mounting pressure from
multiple new government investigations and overwhelming
financial instability, the company ceased operations on
September 6, 2016, and filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy on
September 16, 2016.         The negative publicity was
8                      TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


widespread. 1 Campuses spontaneously closed across the
country, leaving thousands of students stranded and abruptly
ending one of the largest for-profit educational enterprises in
the nation.
    But the downfall of ITT did not immediately extinguish
the PEAKS loans. Those loans remained active and serviced
through Vervent until the PEAKS loans were cancelled as a
result of other litigation. A lawsuit against Vervent and its
leaders for their role in this scheme followed.
B. Procedural History
    On April 10, 2020, three former ITT students filed this
putative class action lawsuit in the Southern District of
California against Vervent, Vervent’s subsidiary Activate
Financial, LLC (“Activate Financial”), CEO and owner
David Johnson, Vice President of Sales Christopher Shuler,
and Executive Vice President and owner Laurence
Chiavaro. 2 Plaintiffs alleged that Vervent and its co-
Defendants participated in a broader enterprise involving the

1
  Patricia Cohen, Downfall of ITT Technical Institutes Was a Long Time
in     the      Making,     N.Y.      TIMES     (Sept.     7,     2016),
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/08/business/downfall-of-itt-
technical-institutes-was-a-long-time-in-the-making.html;
[https://perma.cc/WC2T-7D3P]; Melissa Korn, ITT Technical Institute
Shuts Down After Government Cut Off New Funding, WALL ST. J.
(Sept. 6, 2016, at 21:08 ET), https://www.wsj.com/articles/itt-technical-
institute-to-close-after-government-cuts-off-new-funding-1473163181;
[https://perma.cc/X67B-5H6F]; Lauren Camera, ITT Tech Closes Its
Doors, U.S. NEWS & WORLD R. (Sept. 6, 2016, at 10:45 ET),
https://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2016-09-06/itt-tech-closes-its-
doors; [https://perma.cc/MHX8-BGBC].
2
 The court compelled arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Deutsche
Bank, and Plaintiffs subsequently dismissed their case as to that
defendant.
                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                   9


PEAKS student loan program and asserted claims under
RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d), as well as various state-law and
consumer-protection theories. Plaintiffs alleged that the
PEAKS program was designed to generate non-federal
revenue for ITT in order to preserve ITT’s facial compliance
with the 90/10 Rule, and that Defendants knowingly
serviced and collected on loans arising from that scheme.
     The litigation proceeded through extensive discovery,
motion practice, expert discovery, and class-certification
proceedings.       It also resulted in the reduction and
replacement of various named plaintiffs at different points.
Relevant here, Defendants argued at summary judgment that
Plaintiffs’ RICO claims were barred by the four-year statute
of limitations because their payments and publicly available
information concerning the PEAKS program alerted
Plaintiffs to their potential claims by at least 2014, well over
four years before their suit was filed in April 2020.
Defendants also asserted that Plaintiffs could not satisfy
RICO’s proximate cause requirement by contending that
they could not show that the claimed “injury stemm[ed] from
the alleged wrongful conduct.”
    The district court denied Defendants’ summary
judgment motions relating to timeliness and proximate
causation. As to timeliness, the court concluded that
Plaintiffs either discovered their injuries in October 2020
upon notice of their loan balances being cancelled, or in
September 2016, once ITT filed bankruptcy. As to
proximate causation, the district court determined that
factual disputes barred judgment as a matter of law regarding
the relationship between Defendants’ alleged conduct and
Plaintiffs’ loan payment injuries.
10                 TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


    The case proceeded to a jury trial in June 2023. Over the
course of two weeks, the jury heard testimony from former
students, loan-servicing personnel, expert witnesses, and
other participants connected to the PEAKS program. The
evidence addressed the questionable structure of the PEAKS
program, ITT’s financial incentives, the role of Vervent and
related entities in concealing the true nature of the PEAKS
program and in servicing the loans, the government’s
investigations into ITT, the continued collection of PEAKS
loans after ITT’s collapse, and the extent to which borrowers
reasonably understood the nature of the alleged scheme
before 2016.
    At the close of Plaintiffs’ case, Defendants moved for
judgment as a matter of law under Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 50(a). Defendants argued that Plaintiffs’ claims
were time-barred by RICO’s four-year statute of limitations
and that each attempt to collect on the loans did not restart
the clock. The district court denied Defendants’ Rule 50(a)
motion.
    The jury subsequently returned a verdict in Plaintiffs’
favor on their RICO claims against Vervent, Activate
Financial, and David Johnson. Among other findings, the
jury determined that Defendants participated in a RICO
enterprise and conspiracy and awarded four million dollars
in damages arising from payments Plaintiffs made on
PEAKS loans between April 10, 2016, and September 2020.
That amount was trebled under RICO for a total damages
award of twelve million dollars. The verdict necessarily
reflected the jury’s determination that Plaintiffs suffered
cognizable injury during the period contained within the
four-year statute of limitations and that Defendants’
participatory conduct proximately caused those injuries.
Indeed, the verdict form asked, “[d]o you find that this
                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                  11


alleged conspiracy caused economic injury to Plaintiffs and
the class members?” The form indicates that the jury
answered “YES” as to Vervent, Activate Financial, and
David Johnson.
    Following the jury’s verdict, Defendants renewed their
request for judgment as a matter of law under Rule 50(b).
This time, Defendants argued that Plaintiffs’ claims were
untimely because the statute of limitations should have
started running when their loans were issued in 2010 and
2011 or, at the latest, when they began to make payments on
those loans in 2012 and 2013. Defendants also reiterated
their contention that each attempt at collection on the student
loans did not delay the running of the statute of limitations.
    The district court denied the Rule 50(b) motion. The
court concluded that the RICO claim was timely because the
record contained “evidence that there were efforts by ITT
and Defendants to ensure that Plaintiffs would not learn
about the fraudulent nature of the loans.” The district court
thereafter entered judgment in Plaintiffs’ favor and later
awarded attorney’s fees under RICO. Defendants timely
appealed.
              II. STANDARD OF REVIEW
    The denial of motions for judgment as a matter of law is
reviewed de novo. Castro v. County of Los Angeles, 833
F.3d 1060, 1066 (9th Cir. 2016) (en banc). Judgment as a
matter of law is proper “if the evidence, construed in the light
most favorable to the nonmoving party, permits only one
reasonable conclusion, and that conclusion is contrary to the
jury’s verdict.” Id. (citation omitted). We may not reweigh
the evidence or make our own credibility determinations.
Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Prods., 530 U.S. 133, 150
(2000). The district court’s orders denying Vervent’s
12                  TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


motions for summary judgment are also reviewed de novo.
See Rezner v. Bayerische Hypo-Und Vereinsbank AG, 630
F.3d 866, 871 (9th Cir. 2010). Summary judgment is
appropriate if “there is no genuine dispute as to any material
fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a).
                       III. ANALYSIS
    This appeal presents two issues. We must first determine
whether Plaintiffs knew, or reasonably should have known,
of their injuries by April 10, 2016, such that their claims are
time-barred by RICO’s four-year statute of limitations.
Then, we must decide whether Defendants adequately
preserved their challenge to proximate causation following a
full jury trial.
    We conclude that the jury had enough evidence to find
that Plaintiffs neither knew, nor reasonably should have
known, of their injuries before April 10, 2016. Their
complaint was therefore timely. Defendants also failed to
preserve their proximate causation challenge because the
district court’s summary judgment ruling turned on disputed
factual issues and Defendants never renewed that challenge
at the end of trial. We therefore affirm.
A. RICO’s Four-Year Statute of Limitations
    Statutes of limitations reflect the idea that the law gives
injured parties only a certain amount of time to seek relief.
In practical terms, they function a bit like a countdown clock.
Once the clock starts ticking, a plaintiff has a finite period of
time to bring a lawsuit. When the clock runs out, so too does
a plaintiff’s right to sue.
    In this case, the difficult question is not how long the
clock runs. There is no dispute that civil RICO claims are
                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                  13


governed by a four-year statute of limitations. See Agency
Holding Corp. v. Malley-Duff & Assocs., Inc., 483 U.S. 143,
156 (1987). Instead, the question that lies at the heart of this
appeal is when the clock started ticking in the first place.
    Let’s begin with what we have said on this point. This
court has long applied what is known as the “injury
discovery” rule. See Grimmett v. Brown, 75 F.3d 506, 511
(9th Cir. 1996) (“[W]e have faithfully followed the ‘injury
discovery’ rule for over a decade.”). Under that framework,
the four-year “clock” begins to run for a civil RICO claim
when the plaintiff “knew or should have known of his
injury.” Rotella v. Wood, 528 U.S. 549, 553–54 (2000).
    Supreme Court precedent also guides our review. It has
approved of the “injury discovery” rule, but declined to
adopt a version of that rule that delays accrual of the statute
of limitations until a plaintiff discovers the entire “pattern”
of racketeering activity. Id. at 555 (“A pattern discovery rule
would allow proof of a defendant’s acts even more remote
from time of trial and, hence, litigation even more at odds
with the basic policies of all limitations provisions: repose,
elimination of stale claims, and certainty about a plaintiff’s
opportunity for recovery and a defendant’s potential
liabilities.”).
    But when, exactly, does an injury become discoverable?
Sometimes, an injury itself may be concealed by fraud such
that it is not easily identifiable. So does the clock start
ticking on the statute of limitations when the injury first
happens, or when a plaintiff discovers (or should have
discovered) the fraudulent nature of that injury?
   We have long adopted the latter approach. Where fraud
masks the injury, accrual does not begin until the plaintiff
knew, or reasonably should have known, of the fraud-
14                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


induced nature of the injury. See Living Designs, Inc. v. E.I.
Dupont de Nemours & Co., 431 F.3d 353, 365 (9th Cir.
2005) (“Plaintiffs’ RICO claims accrued when Plaintiffs had
actual or constructive knowledge of [the] fraud.”); Beneficial
Standard Life Ins. Co. v. Madariaga, 851 F.2d 271, 275 (9th
Cir. 1988) (“The plaintiff is deemed to have had constructive
knowledge if it had enough information to warrant an
investigation which, if reasonably diligent, would have led
to discovery of the fraud.”).
    So, when did Plaintiffs in this case become aware of the
fraud underlying their student loan payments? Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs knew, or should have known, of their
alleged injury the moment they began making payments on
the PEAKS loan or when the government initiated various
regulatory investigations into the PEAKS program. 3 On the
other hand, Plaintiffs contend that they neither knew, nor
should have known, of their injury until the high-profile
bankruptcy and collapse of ITT in September 2016. We
conclude that sufficient evidence presented at trial shows
that Plaintiffs were reasonably not aware of the fraudulent
nature of their loan payment injuries until after ITT’s high-
profile collapse in September 2016. As such, a reasonable
jury could have found that Plaintiffs were not on inquiry
notice more than four years before April 10, 2020, the day
they filed suit.
    Let’s start with the basics. We know that Plaintiffs were
certainly not placed on inquiry notice merely because they
experienced an otherwise ordinary financial transaction.
Millions of Americans regularly make student loan

3
  Defendants preserved the statute of limitations issue by raising it in
their Rule 50(a) and Rule 50(b) motions. See EEOC v. Go Daddy
Software, Inc., 581 F.3d 951, 961 (9th Cir. 2009).
                   TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                  15


payments without experiencing any legal injury. So, the
injury discovery rule must demand something more.
    That “something more” is the fraudulent nature of
Plaintiffs’ injury. What makes their payments an “injury” is
the fact that the risk-laden support for the PEAKS loan
program was deliberately concealed from the government
and student borrowers alike. In other words, the injury was
the payment on loans that were generated and maintained
through concealment and fraud. The relevant inquiry is thus
not when Plaintiffs knew they were making payments, but
when Plaintiffs knew or reasonably should have known that
those payments were fraudulently induced. See Living
Designs, 431 F.3d at 365; Beneficial Standard Life, 851 F.2d
at 275.
    Defendants tell us it is not that simple. They suggest that
the Supreme Court in Rotella rejected a rule that would have
delayed accrual until a plaintiff discovered the full RICO
enterprise. See 528 U.S. at 557–59. We agree.
    But Rotella did not go as far as holding that benign acts
taken without awareness of the underlying fraud may “start
the clock” on a statute of limitations. Nor is it inconsistent
with our subsequent recognition in Living Designs that, in
concealed-fraud cases, discovery of the fraud and discovery
of the injury may coincide. 431 F.3d at 365.
    Defendants argue that even if the statute of limitations
only began to run at the time when Plaintiffs knew or should
have known of the fraud, reversal is still required.
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs were on inquiry notice by
at least 2015 because of two categories of evidence:
(1) public investigations into ITT and the PEAKS program;
and (2) irregularities in the loan documents themselves. We
16                 TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


conclude that neither argument compels reversal under the
demanding Rule 50 standard.
    First, we reject Defendants’ assertion that the alleged
loan documentation irregularities should have put student
borrowers on inquiry notice as to the fraud. Defendants
point to incomplete terms, missing documents, and other
abnormalities that they assert should have prompted
borrowers to investigate further and discover the fraud. But
the jury heard testimony quite to the contrary. Defendants’
own expert witness testified that the program appeared to be
“a legitimate, functioning program” from a loan-servicing
perspective. He further explained that third-party payments
on delinquent accounts, while “unusual,” were “not
uncommon” in the student loan industry. The jury also heard
testimony that when one borrower inquired about third-party
payments on the borrower’s account, Defendants falsely told
the borrower that they qualified for a “recovery program.”
On this testimony, a reasonable juror could infer that
ordinary student loan borrowers would be even less equipped
than sophisticated servicing professionals to detect an
underlying fraudulent scheme.
    Second, the jury reasonably could have concluded that
the various complex government investigations before 2016
did not place borrowers on notice that their own payment
obligations had been fraudulently induced. Defendants rely
on the SEC and CFPB investigations into ITT’s financial
practices to argue that Plaintiffs reasonably should have been
aware of the fraud prior to 2016. But the evidence showed
that those investigations focused primarily on the accounting
practices, financial disclosures, and balance-sheet
management of ITT, not on wrongdoing by Vervent as the
loan servicer. Defendants’ own expert acknowledged that
the investigations did not appear to allege “improper or
                   TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                  17


inappropriate activities” by Vervent. Vervent’s CEO
similarly testified that the SEC’s lawsuit concerned “really
arcane accounting rules . . . , which I don’t pretend to
understand.” If these regulatory investigations did not tip off
a sophisticated corporation, it is difficult to conclude that
ordinary student borrowers should have been better
detectives. Complex regulatory investigations will rarely
put unsuspecting consumers on notice of fraud for the
purpose of starting the clock on the statute of limitations.
    Our reasoning illustrates an important point: inquiry
notice depends heavily on context. A sophisticated financial
institution reviewing regulatory investigations may
reasonably be expected to appreciate implications that would
not be obvious to ordinary consumers. But student
borrowers are not held to the same level of financial
sophistication as institutional investors, specialized
corporations, or industry insiders. Indeed, our precedent
rejects an “injury discovery” rule that would assess inquiry
notice in a vacuum. The question is what a similarly situated
plaintiff would have understood under the circumstances.
See, e.g., Mathews v. Kidder, Peabody & Co., 260 F.3d 239,
251 (3d Cir. 2001) (“[A] plaintiff is on inquiry notice
whenever circumstances exist that would lead a reasonable
investor of ordinary intelligence, through the exercise of
reasonable due diligence, to discover his or her injury.”
(emphasis added)).
    That’s what makes Defendants’ position so ironic here.
At trial, Defendants presented testimony emphasizing that
even Vervent, a sophisticated loan-servicing entity operating
within the industry itself, did not recognize the PEAKS
program as fraudulent during the relevant period. Yet, on
appeal, Defendants now contend that ordinary student
borrowers necessarily should have dropped their notebooks
18                TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


and discovered the fraud years earlier based on complex
regulatory filings and irregular loan paperwork that Vervent
itself argued were seemingly benign. The jury could
reasonably have concluded that ordinary student borrowers
would not infer from complex regulatory investigations or
abnormal paperwork that their own loan obligations had
been fraudulently induced through a concealed RICO
enterprise. These borrowers understandably trusted their
school and loan servicer, and were injured as a result.
    The evidence supports the conclusion that ITT’s
headline-grabbing dramatic collapse and bankruptcy in
September 2016 represented the first moment when
reasonable borrowers would likely have understood that
something was awry with the PEAKS program. Until that
point, borrowers continued making payments on what
outwardly appeared to be ordinary student loans serviced
through conventional channels. Only after ITT’s collapse
did the broader structure of the PEAKS program and the
extent of the alleged concealment become publicly visible
such that ordinary student loan borrowers would have been
aware.
    Ultimately, Defendants ask us to hold that student
borrowers were required to infer hidden fraud from routine
payment obligations, complicated regulatory investigations,
and irregular paperwork long before ITT’s collapse exposed
the PEAKS program to broader public scrutiny. Even if
some jurors could have been persuaded by Defendants’
position, that is not the standard by which we must review
the district court’s denial of Defendants’ motion for
judgment as a matter of law. Under Rule 50, the question is
whether the evidence permits only one reasonable
conclusion contrary to the jury’s verdict. See Castro, 833
F.3d at 1066. Here, it does not.
                    TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                   19


     Substantial evidence supports the jury’s determination
that Plaintiffs neither knew, nor reasonably should have
known, of their alleged injury more than four years before
filing suit. Defendants’ statute-of-limitations challenge
fails, and we affirm the district court’s denial of Defendants’
renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law. 4
B. The Proximate Cause Issue
    Defendants next argue that the district court erred by
denying summary judgment as to the issue of proximate
causation. Defendants contend that Plaintiffs’ injuries were
too remote because the alleged fraud was directed primarily
toward regulators and investors rather than toward the
student borrowers themselves. But we need not reach the
merits of that argument, as Defendants failed to preserve the
issue for appellate review in the posture presented here.
    Ordinarily, a district court’s denial of summary
judgment is not reviewable after a full trial on the merits.
See Ortiz v. Jordan, 562 U.S. 180, 188 (2011). And this
makes sense. That rule exists because the trial record
supersedes the prior summary judgment record, and factual
disputes resolved by a jury cannot ordinarily be revisited
through appellate review of an earlier summary judgment
ruling. Id. at 184.
   The Supreme Court recently clarified that this rule is not
absolute. Although denials of summary judgment generally
become unreviewable after a full trial on the merits, an
exception exists for issues that are purely legal in nature.
Such issues remain reviewable on appeal because their

4
  Because we affirm on this basis, we need not reach Plaintiffs’
alternative argument that their RICO claims were timely under the
“separate accrual” rule. See Grimmett, 75 F.3d at 510–11.
20                   TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


resolution does not depend on any evidentiary issues
developed at trial. See Dupree v. Younger, 598 U.S. 729,
735 (2023) (“Trials wholly supplant pretrial factual rulings,
but they leave pretrial legal rulings undisturbed. The point
of a trial, after all, is not to hash out the law.”).
    This case does not fit within Dupree’s narrow exception.
Contrary to Defendants’ assertion, the district court did not
adopt a categorical legal rule on proximate causation that
favored Plaintiffs. 5 Instead, without reaching a clear
judgment on the correct legal standard for proximate cause,
the district court concluded that genuine disputes of material
fact precluded judgment as a matter of law. In denying
summary judgment, the district court explained that “[h]ad
the loans not been made . . . and had Defendants not assisted
in servicing them, [the named Plaintiff] would not have
made loan payments to Defendants,” and that this evidence
was “enough at this stage to create a genuine factual issue as
to the nexus between [the named] Plaintiff’s injury and
Defendants’ conduct.”
    Like many (but not all) denials of summary judgment,
the district court’s ruling fundamentally turned on disputed
factual issues. The court determined that a reasonable jury
could find that Defendants’ alleged servicing and collection
activities were sufficiently related to Plaintiffs’ injuries.
Resolving that issue required evaluating competing factual
narratives concerning the nature of the PEAKS program, the
targets of the alleged scheme, the role of Vervent, and the
mechanism by which Plaintiffs’ injuries occurred. Those are

5
  Had the district court adopted a clear legal rule as to proximate
causation at summary judgment, that issue would have been reviewable.
But here it only concluded that material issues of fact existed as to
whether Plaintiffs established proximate causation.
                   TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.                 21


not purely legal determinations detached from the
evidentiary record, but quintessential questions for the jury.
See Ortiz, 562 U.S. at 190.
     Equally important, Defendants failed to preserve a post-
trial sufficiency challenge directed at the proximate cause
theory they now advance on appeal. See Go Daddy
Software, 581 F.3d at 961 (noting that post-trial sufficiency
review is limited to grounds specifically raised in Rule 50(a)
motions). Nor did Defendants object to the district court’s
causation instructions, which largely mirrored Defendants’
own proposed language.
    In short, Defendants seek appellate review of a summary
judgment ruling that turned on disputed factual issues after a
full jury trial and without a properly preserved Rule 50
challenge to the specific theory they now emphasize on
appeal. Ortiz forbids that approach. We therefore decline to
reach the merits of Defendants’ proximate causation
arguments and affirm the district court on this ground as
well.
                    IV. CONCLUSION
    Fraud rarely announces itself. For years, Plaintiffs made
routine payments on loans that appeared legitimate and
which were serviced through seemingly ordinary channels
by sophisticated financial entities. These student borrowers
trusted those organizations. It was only after ITT’s dramatic
collapse in September 2016, and the unraveling of the
PEAKS program, that Plaintiffs understood they may have
been duped. The jury heard extensive testimony, considered
competing explanations for what the student borrowers and
Defendants reasonably should have understood, and
ultimately concluded that Plaintiffs neither knew, nor
reasonably should have known, of their alleged injury
22                 TURREY V. VERVENT, INC.


outside the four-year limitations period. The demanding
standard of review does not license us to retry the case from
the appellate bench.
    This case also serves as an important reminder that
statutes of limitations are designed to promote fairness, not
gamesmanship. The law requires injured parties to act
diligently once wrongdoing becomes reasonably
discoverable. But it does not subject ordinary persons to the
same standards as sophisticated actors. It also does not
require clairvoyance by placing unrealistic obligations on
consumers. Simply put, ordinary borrowers are not required
to assume that seemingly routine financial obligations
conceal a high-level, sophisticated fraudulent scheme
involving major institutions, securitized trusts, and complex
financial arrangements.
    Nor are parties allowed to challenge fact-bound issues on
appeal that were never properly preserved after trial. When
a party fails to preserve its objections to fact-bound issues
through Rule 50 motions following a jury trial, we are
typically not free to address those challenges on appeal.
Such is the case here.
    Because substantial evidence supports the jury’s verdict,
and because Defendants failed to preserve their proximate
causation challenge for appellate review, the judgment of the
district court is affirmed.
     AFFIRMED.
