United States Court of Appeals
                        For the First Circuit


No. 24-1427

                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,

                         Plaintiff, Appellee,

                                  v.

                 COMMONWEALTH EQUITY SERVICES, LLC,
                d/b/a Commonwealth Financial Network,

                        Defendant, Appellant.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
               FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

              [Hon. Indira Talwani, U.S. District Judge]


                                Before

                     Montecalvo, Circuit Judge,
                     Breyer,* Associate Justice,
                      and Lynch, Circuit Judge.


     Thomas M. Byrne, with whom Olga Greenberg, Rebekah
Whittington O'Brien, and Eversheds Sutherland (US) LLP were on
brief, for appellant.
     Joshua M. Feinzig, Kelly P. Dunbar, Elizabeth L. Mitchell,
Joseph M. Toner, and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr, LLP,
on brief for Financial Services Institute, Inc., amicus curae.
     Paul G. Álvarez, Senior Appellate Counsel, with whom Megan
Barbero, General Counsel, Michael A. Conley, Solicitor, and Daniel
Staroselsky, Assistant General Counsel, Securities and Exchange
Commission, were on brief, for appellee.

     *    Hon. Stephen G. Breyer, Associate Justice (Ret.) of the
Supreme Court of the United States, sitting by designation.
April 1, 2025
            LYNCH, Circuit Judge.       Commonwealth Equity Services,

LLC, appeals from entry of summary judgment on liability and awards

totaling roughly $93 million in a civil enforcement action brought

by the Securities and Exchange         Commission.        The SEC alleges

Commonwealth failed to adequately disclose potential conflicts of

interest from 2014 to 2018 in violation of Sections 206(2) and (4)

of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. § 80b-6(2), (4),

and SEC Rule 206(4)-7, 17 C.F.R. § 275.206(4)-7(a), and claimed a

jury trial. On cross motions, the district court granted the SEC's

motion for summary judgment as to Commonwealth's liability and

denied both Commonwealth's cross-motion for summary judgment, SEC

v. Commonwealth Equity Servs., LLC, No. 19-cv-11655, 2023 WL

2838691, at *1 (D. Mass. Apr. 7, 2023), and its later motion to

reconsider the grant of summary judgment to the SEC, SEC v.

Commonwealth Equity Servs., LLC, 718 F.Supp.3d 113, 115 (D. Mass.

2024).     The district court then entered final judgment against

Commonwealth,      ordering     disgorgement      of      $65,588,906      in

revenue-sharing income plus $21,185,162 in prejudgment interest

and imposing on Commonwealth a civil penalty of $6,500,000.               SEC

v. Commonwealth Equity Servs., LLC, No. 19-cv-11655, 2024 WL

1375970, at *1, *11-12, *13 (D. Mass. Mar. 29, 2024). Commonwealth

appeals from all of these orders.         We vacate the grant of summary

judgment    and   the   disgorgement   order   and     remand   for   further

proceedings consistent with this opinion.


                                  - 3 -
                                          I.

              We recite the relevant undisputed facts of record, as

well as many of the material disputed facts.

              Commonwealth     is   an    SEC-registered     broker-dealer    and

investment advisor.          Commonwealth offers its advisory services

through   a    network    of   approximately      2,300     investment   advisor

representatives.         These      representatives    are    affiliated     with

Commonwealth but operate independent advisory businesses in their

own names, providing advisory services and buying and selling for

their clients.         There are many different types of clients, as

discussed     below.      Representatives        disclose    to   clients   their

affiliation with Commonwealth.

              Commonwealth     representatives        are     responsible     for

identifying prospective clients, communicating with those clients

about their financial circumstances and investment objectives, and

managing clients' accounts in accordance with those objectives.

As required by regulation, representatives agree that they will

offer only those products Commonwealth has approved.               Commonwealth

charges clients annual advisory fees based on a percentage of the

assets under Commonwealth management, and representatives receive

as compensation between 50% and 98% of the advisory fees their

clients pay.

              To buy and sell mutual funds, these representatives

utilize National Financial Services, LLC (NFS), which acts as a


                                         - 4 -
clearing broker.      Commonwealth functions as an "introducing firm,"

providing its representatives with access to NFS.            In its role as

clearing broker, NFS "executes and clears client trades" and NFS

or one of its affiliates "maintains custody of the investments

held by Commonwealth's clients."         NFS provides Commonwealth, and

by extension its representatives, with access to the FundsNetwork,

a platform through which mutual funds may be purchased.                      In

addition to the mutual funds available through the FundsNetwork,

representatives are permitted to purchase and sell Fidelity Funds

and Fidelity Advisor Funds, also through NFS.

            Mutual funds that are part of the FundsNetwork are

separated   into     three   programs:   the   No    Transaction   Fee    (NTF)

program, the Transaction Fee (TF) program, and the Institutional

No Transaction Fee (iNTF) program.          The iNTF program was offered

for the first time in February 2017.                Mutual funds in the TF

program incur fees when bought and sold, whereas those within the

NTF and iNTF programs do not.       As to TF funds, representatives may

choose to absorb any of the transaction fees incurred when buying

and selling TF program funds and choose whether to pass on those

fees as part of the advisory fees they charge their clients.

            Mutual    funds,    including      those   available    via     the

FundsNetwork, may issue multiple share classes of the same fund,

and many do so.      Each share class of a mutual fund generally has

identical voting, dividend, liquidation, and other rights and


                                   - 5 -
limitations, and different classes of the same fund will receive

the same income, realized and unrealized capital gains and losses,

and expenses that are common to the mutual fund.                        But each class

may     have     different       class-based      fees,         expenses,      or   other

requirements associated with it, and may be offered to different

types of investors.         Some of a share class's expenses are ongoing,

and a share class's total ongoing expenses are referred to as its

"expense ratio."          Other expenses are incurred periodically, such

as "transaction fees" charged when investors buy, sell, or exchange

an investment.      These transaction fees are not ongoing and are not

included in a share class's expense ratio.                  Share classes may also

differ in the minimum investment required to purchase a particular

class.     FundsNetwork provides access to more than 17,000 mutual

fund share classes, and some mutual funds are offered in multiple

share classes made available for purchase via FundsNetwork through

more than one program (TF, NTF, or iNTF).

               Mutual fund companies that offer mutual funds through

the FundsNetwork platform often pay fees to NFS, though some share

classes of funds are made available through the FundsNetwork

platform       without    paying    such    fees.         Sometimes,     NFS    receives

payments from mutual fund companies to make some share classes of

a fund available on FundsNetwork, but it is also true that other

share    classes     of    the     same    fund     may    be    made    available     on

FundsNetwork without any such payment to NFS.                       Neither Fidelity


                                          - 6 -
Funds nor Fidelity Advisor Funds make such payments to NFS.             Since

at least 2009, NFS has shared a portion of these payments with

Commonwealth, and, beginning in 2014, Commonwealth and NFS agreed

that NFS would pay Commonwealth 80% of the gross revenue it

received from funds in the NTF and TF programs.

           The parties agree that representatives are not aware

which share classes were part of the revenue-sharing agreement

between   NFS   and   Commonwealth.     The    parties   also   agree   that

representatives' compensation is not increased or decreased in any

way based on whether the funds they select for their clients

provide Commonwealth with revenue-sharing income.

           In addition to providing representatives with access to

NFS and the FundsNetwork, Commonwealth provides representatives

with access to its Preferred Portfolio Services (PPS) program, a

Mutual Fund Resource Guide, and a list of recommended funds.              The

PPS program includes model portfolios which representatives or

clients may select, offered under sub-programs known as the "PPS

Select" and "PPS Direct" programs.           Model portfolios in the PPS

Select    program     are   developed   by    Commonwealth's    Investment

Management and Research team, while model portfolios in the PPS

Direct program are created and managed by third parties and made

available through Commonwealth.1        The Mutual Fund Resource Guide


     1   Representatives and clients can also avail themselves of
the PPS Custom program, in which case the representative would


                                   - 7 -
provides information on mutual funds and share classes available

to representatives.     The list of recommended funds contains funds

that have been screened by Commonwealth's Investment Management

and Research team and are recommended for use by representatives

when crafting their clients' portfolios.         Representatives may also

conduct   independent   research     into   available      funds   and   share

classes using Morningstar, a tool Commonwealth makes available to

its representatives at a discounted price.

           As an SEC-registered investment advisor, Commonwealth

maintains a "Form ADV" brochure for its clients, and it updates

this   brochure   annually    in    March   of   each   year,   as   well    as

periodically between its annual filings.           This brochure is filed

with the SEC and a copy is posted on Commonwealth's website.

Commonwealth   also   mails   its    clients     letters   summarizing      any

material changes made to the brochure and notifying the clients

how they may obtain copies of the full brochure if they so wish.

           Pertinently, SEC regulations require that this brochure:

           make full disclosure of all material conflicts
           of interest between [Commonwealth] and [its]
           clients that could affect the advisory
           relationship. This obligation requires that
           [Commonwealth]   provide   the   client   with
           sufficiently specific facts so that the client
           is able to understand the conflicts of
           interest [Commonwealth has] and the business
           practices in which [Commonwealth] engage[s],


develop a custom investment portfolio for the client and act as
that portfolio's manager.


                                    - 8 -
          and can give informed consent to           such
          conflicts or practices or reject them.

Amendments to Form ADV, Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Release

No. 3060 (2010), 2010 WL 2957506, at *74.    SEC regulations further

specify that "[i]f someone who is not a client provides an economic

benefit to you for providing investment advice or other advisory

services to your clients, generally describe the arrangement,

explain the conflicts of interest, and describe how you address

the conflicts of interest."    Id. at *86.

          As   it   pertains   to   Commonwealth's   revenue-sharing

arrangement with NFS, Commonwealth's 2014 brochure provided:

          NFS offers a "No Transaction Fee" program with
          more   than   1,200  no-load   mutual   funds.
          Participating mutual fund sponsors pay a fee
          to NFS to participate in this program, and a
          portion   of   this   fee   is   shared   with
          Commonwealth.     None of these additional
          payments is paid to any advisors who sell
          these funds.

          . . . .

          Commonwealth and your advisor may receive
          service fees and other compensation from
          investment product sponsors and distributors
          when they make recommendations or investment
          decisions   for   you.     These   fees   and
          compensation include, but are not limited to,
          mutual fund and money market 12b-1 and
          subtransfer agent fees, mutual fund and money
          market management fees and administrative
          expenses, mutual fund transaction fees,
          certain deferred sales charges on previously
          purchased mutual funds transferred into an
          account, variable annuity expenses, due
          diligence fees, marketing reimbursements or
          reallowances, or other transaction or service


                               - 9 -
         fees.    Commonwealth and your advisor may
         receive a portion of these fees.         This
         additional compensation presents a potential
         conflict of interest because Commonwealth and
         your advisor may have a greater incentive to
         recommend (or make investment decisions
         regarding) investments for your account that
         provide such additional compensation to
         Commonwealth or your advisor.

         . . . .

         Where permitted by law, Commonwealth and/or
         your advisor may receive transaction-based
         commissions,    mutual     fund    12b-1   fees,
         distributor fees, service fees, due diligence
         fees,   marketing     reimbursements,    revenue
         sharing, or other payments relating to your
         investment   in    or    otherwise    supporting
         Commonwealth's or your advisor's activities
         regarding   the    securities    and   insurance
         products recommended, purchased, or held
         within your Commonwealth advisory program
         account.   To the extent Commonwealth is the
         investment adviser, sponsor, or other service
         provider to your investment advisory program,
         Commonwealth receives compensation for its
         services.    Clients should be aware that
         Commonwealth's or your advisor's receipt of
         commissions,    fees,    payments,   and   other
         compensation may present a potential conflict
         of interest because Commonwealth or your
         advisor may have an incentive to recommend
         those products or programs or make investment
         decisions regarding investments that provide
         such compensation to Commonwealth or your
         advisor.

(Emphasis added).   Commonwealth made disclosures substantially

similar to these in 2015 and 2016.

         Commonwealth's 2017 brochure included this additional

disclosure regarding its revenue-sharing arrangement with NFS:




                             - 10 -
         NFS offers an NTF program composed of no-load
         mutual funds.     Participating mutual fund
         sponsors pay a fee to NFS to participate in
         this program, and a portion of this fee is
         shared with Commonwealth.     None of these
         additional payments is paid to any advisors
         who sell these funds. NTF mutual funds may be
         purchased within an investment advisory
         account at no charge to the client. Clients,
         however, should be aware that funds available
         through the NTF program may contain higher
         internal expenses than mutual funds that do
         not participate in the NTF program and could
         present a potential conflict of interest
         because Commonwealth may have an incentive to
         recommend those products or make investment
         decisions regarding investments that provide
         such compensation to Commonwealth.

(Emphasis added).

         And in August 2017, Commonwealth amended its brochure to

add:

         Clients . . . should be aware that funds
         available through the NTF program often
         contain higher internal expenses than mutual
         funds that do not participate in the NTF
         program. Commonwealth's receipt of a portion
         of the fees associated with the NTF program
         creates a conflict of interest because
         Commonwealth   has   an   incentive  to   make
         available or to recommend those products, or
         make    investment      decisions    regarding
         investments, that provide such compensation to
         NFS and Commonwealth over those mutual fund
         sponsors that do not make such payments to NFS
         and Commonwealth.

(Emphasis added).

         In 2018, Commonwealth further modified its brochure to

state that Commonwealth "will receive" revenue-sharing payments




                            - 11 -
from NFS, rather than that it "may receive" those payments.

Commonwealth's 2018 disclosure also stated:

         Although NTF funds do not assess transaction
         charges, most NTF funds have higher internal
         expenses than funds that do not participate in
         an NTF program.    These higher internal fund
         expenses are assessed to investors who
         purchase or hold NTF funds.     Depending upon
         the frequency of trading and hold periods, NTF
         funds may cost you more, or may cost
         Commonwealth or your Commonwealth advisor
         less,    than   mutual   funds   that    assess
         transaction charges but have lower internal
         expenses.    In addition, the higher internal
         expenses charged to clients who hold NTF funds
         will    adversely    affect    the    long-term
         performance of the client's account when
         compared to share classes of the same fund
         that assess lower internal expenses.

         For those Commonwealth advisory programs that
         assess transaction charges to clients or to
         Commonwealth or the advisor, a conflict of
         interest exists because Commonwealth or your
         advisor   have   a   financial  incentive   to
         recommend or select NTF funds that do not
         assess transaction charges but cost you more
         in internal expenses than funds that do assess
         transaction charges but cost you less in
         internal expenses.     In addition to reading
         this Brochure carefully, clients are urged to
         inquire whether lower-cost share classes are
         available and/or appropriate for their account
         in consideration of the client's expected
         investment holding periods, amounts invested,
         and anticipated trading frequency.     Further
         information    regarding   fees  and   charges
         assessed by a mutual fund is available in the
         appropriate mutual fund prospectus.

(Emphasis added).

         And in December 2018, Commonwealth amended its brochure

to add the following language:


                             - 12 -
          Commonwealth uses National Financial Services
          ("NFS") as its clearing and custody firm for
          substantially all of Commonwealth's PPS
          managed accounts.    Commonwealth's business
          relationship with NFS provides Commonwealth
          considerable revenue-sharing benefits.     In
          particular, Commonwealth receives substantial
          monthly revenue-sharing payments from NFS
          based on client assets held by Commonwealth
          with NFS in . . . non-Fidelity NTF funds that
          participate in Fidelity's NTF program, and
          non-Fidelity TF funds that participate in
          Fidelity's TF program.

          Commonwealth's revenue-sharing agreement with
          NFS, and the existence of various fund share
          classes with lower-internal expenses that
          Commonwealth may not make available for
          purchase in managed account programs, present
          a conflict of interest between clients and
          Commonwealth or its advisors. A conflict of
          interest exists because Commonwealth and your
          advisor have a greater incentive to make
          available, recommend, or make investment
          decisions regarding investments that provide
          additional compensation to Commonwealth that
          cost clients more than other available share
          classes in the same fund that cost you less.

(Emphasis added).

          From   July     2014    through    December      2018,   NFS   paid

Commonwealth approximately $189.1 million, which included both

revenue-sharing payments and payments for other expenses.                  The

parties disagree as to what portion of the $189.1 million NFS paid

to   Commonwealth   was    paid     pursuant   to   the     revenue-sharing

agreement.    Commonwealth        contends   that   "NFS    itself   had   no

visibility into the breakdown between revenue sharing and other

payments." The SEC has estimated that approximately $155.6 million



                                   - 13 -
of this was related to the advisory client assets relevant to this

enforcement action.   Commonwealth has not conceded the accuracy of

this $155.6 million figure.

Deposition Testimony from Commonwealth Representatives

          The   SEC   took    depositions   from   six   Commonwealth

representatives, each of whom testified as to his own experience

as a Commonwealth representative, his own decision-making process

when investing on behalf of his clients, and his clients' different

investment objectives.   The relevant portions of their deposition

testimonies in the record follow.

Hal Michels

          Hal Michels, a registered Commonwealth representative

since 2007, testified to at least two instances where, on behalf

of his clients, he purchased share classes that were not the

absolute lowest cost funds available.

          Michels testified that his firm bought and held shares

of the PIMCO Income Fund, Share Class D, from 2014 to 2017.        At

that time, the expense ratio for Class D was approximately 34 basis

points higher than the institutional share class of the PIMCO

Income Fund, and 24 basis points higher than Class P of the Fund.

Michels was not aware of why his firm purchased the Class D shares

for their clients instead of either the Class P or institutional

shares and was not personally aware that there was a Class P or

institutional share class of the Fund.


                                - 14 -
           In 2017, PIMCO discontinued its Class D shares.   Michels

delegated the decision as to what to do with clients' existing

Class D shares to two of his associates, Jamie Direnzo and Joe

Valenza.   Direnzo and Valenza decided to convert clients' Class D

shares to Class P shares and not to a cheaper available fund.     As

Valenza explained: "[w]e are aware that the institutional share

class is 10 basis points cheaper than the P share class; however,

the institutional class is not considered a core fund.   The P share

class is a core share class.   This matters more to us, so we want

the P share class."   Michels explained that the difference between

core and non-core funds is that core funds don't pay a transaction

fee on the purchase portion of a transaction.

           Michels also testified that, when determining what share

classes to purchase for clients, his firm's practice was "typically

to start with the Commonwealth recommended list and then do [their]

own research on the . . . funds that are there, as well as other

funds."    Direzo and Valenza "ma[de] those decisions as to which

share class to use with the instructions" to select "the cheapest

most effective share class available." In this context, "cheapest"

meant "lowest expense ratio . . . relative to any other charges

that there might be, like [transaction fees]."    For classes that

did not charge transaction fees, or where Michels' firm absorbed

the cost of transaction fees, staff were instructed to select share

classes with the lowest expense ratio.     But, from 2014 to 2018,


                               - 15 -
Michels' firm purchased shares of the investor class of the

American Century Equity Income Fund, rather than the institutional

class    of   that     Fund,     even   though   the   expense     ratio   of     the

institutional class was 20 basis points lower.                 Michels testified

that he did not know why his firm had made that investment

decision.

David Bucholtz

              David Bucholtz, a registered Commonwealth representative

since 2003, testified that "upwards of [75%]" of his firm's clients

were    invested     in    the   PPS    Custom   program     and   "a   very   small

percentage" were invested in PPS Select and "[m]aybe even less" in

PPS Direct.        When purchasing funds for clients, Bucholtz would

"look and . . . try to find . . . the lower cost.                  Cost matters a

lot."     But    the      definition    of   lower   cost,    itself,    varied    in

different ways.        He would:

              look at how long [he was] expecting to hold
              this fund, if [he was] going to hold it for a
              long period of time, what's the expense
              ratio . . . [He would] try and look for a no
              transaction fee. If it's something [he] might
              be moving out of or if it's something [he]
              kn[e]w [was] going to be there for a long time,
              the transaction fee can be more significant
              than another one where [he was] looking to
              keep it for a long time.

Bucholtz testified that he purchased PIMCO Class P shares for his

clients in 2016, and that when he did, he was aware that there

were other PIMCO Income Fund share classes with lower expense



                                        - 16 -
ratios, but purchased Class P because it "was the lowest expense

ratio . . . without . . .[a] ticket charge on the front side for

buying it."    At the time he purchased the shares he considered

buying the institutional class, instead, but "wasn't certain how

long [he] would be in th[e] fund" and "the expense ratio was ten

basis points, so it wasn't a huge difference between the two."

However, a 24 basis point difference in expense ratio between Class

P and Class D shares was more than Bucholtz was willing to pay.

William A. Muskat

            William Muskat, a registered Commonwealth representative

since 2009, testified that, from 2014 to 2018, he was not "an

active trading advisor" and his firm "had a buy and hold strategy."

During that time, he "look[ed] for share classes that had the lower

expense ratio" as "a general rule," and, at the time, "those share

classes [were] typically outside of the NTF program."        During the

period in which Muskat had a buy and hold strategy, he did not

recall transaction fees being a factor he considered when selecting

a   share   class.    Muskat   testified   that   factors   other   than

transaction fees and expense ratio might also affect the price of

a share class, such as whether a fund was supplementing the fee

for the expense ratio for a period of time.       Muskat also testified

that the summary prospectuses for at least some funds laid out the

total operating expenses for each share class in the fund and that

a fund's prospectus is publicly available information.


                                - 17 -
Richard Hana

            Richard     Hana,    a      registered        representative       of

Commonwealth since 2005, testified that, from 2014 to 2018, he

determined what mutual funds were available through Commonwealth

by consulting lists Commonwealth provided via email and by calling

NFS to determine whether a particular fund could be purchased

through   Commonwealth.      Hana     was     familiar   with    Commonwealth's

Mutual Fund Resource Guide but testified that his office "use[d]

Morningstar a lot for [their] research," identifying mutual funds

within Morningstar that they would like to purchase for their

clients, then contacting Commonwealth or NFS to determine whether

those    funds   were   available.      In     Spring    2018,   Hana's    office

converted client holdings in PIMCO funds to the institutional share

class of that PIMCO fund because the conversion offered "the lowest

[cost]     share    class    that      [Hana's      office]      thought     was

available . . . at the time."          Commonwealth then provided Hana's

office with a spreadsheet listing other mutual fund share classes

then held by his clients alongside proposed lower-cost share

classes to which Hana's clients could convert their holdings. Hana

could not recall whether his office converted any of their clients

to the lower-cost share classes Commonwealth identified.

Larry Robert Brown

            Larry Brown, a registered Commonwealth representative

since August 1, 2017, testified that he never "at any time looked


                                     - 18 -
for whether or not a . . . particular mutual fund[] was approved

by Commonwealth," offering only the PPS Custom program to his

clients.    Nor did Brown ever use Commonwealth's Mutual Fund

Resource Guide.    Brown testified that "for new purchases since

being at Commonwealth, we're only using one share class per fund

family, whichever share class has the lowest expense ratio."   Upon

joining Commonwealth in 2017, Brown opted to absorb the cost for

all of his clients' transaction fees.

           In November of 2018, Brown received an announcement from

Commonwealth notifying him that Commonwealth intended to begin

offering only a single share class of each mutual fund and would

"automatically convert existing PPS Custom and advisor-managed

mutual fund holdings to the single share class on a rolling basis."

Brown noted that the institutional share class of PIMCO funds

(which Brown had purchased for his clients because it had the

lowest expense ratio of the PIMCO funds) was not the share class

that Commonwealth would be offering going forward.    Brown became

concerned that his clients would have their institutional share

class holdings automatically converted into another share class

with a higher expense ratio, and that clients would not be able to

purchase institutional shares of PIMCO in the future, and reached

out to Commonwealth about his concerns.    Commonwealth responded,

indicating that it would not convert share classes to a more

expensive share class but that Brown's clients would no longer be


                              - 19 -
able to purchase the PIMCO institutional share class after April

1, 2019.    Brown testified that it was his understanding that these

changes did not go into effect as described, however, because he

was still able to purchase the PIMCO institutional share class for

his clients after April 1, 2019.

            The SEC presented no testimony from any investor client

of any Commonwealth representative.

                                      II.

            The SEC initiated this enforcement action in 2019.                 The

SEC   alleged     that,    from    July     2014   through     December      2018,

Commonwealth      failed     to      adequately          disclose     that     its

revenue-sharing agreement with NFS created a conflict of interest

by incentivizing Commonwealth to direct its clients' investments,

through the representatives, to mutual fund share classes that

produced revenue-sharing income for Commonwealth over other share

classes that could be cheaper for Commonwealth's clients.2                     The

SEC contended that these inadequate disclosures constituted a

negligent breach of Commonwealth's fiduciary duty under Section

206(2)     of   the   Investment    Advisers       Act    of   1940    and   that

Commonwealth's failure "to adopt and to implement written policies

and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that Commonwealth



      2   The SEC has not claimed that Commonwealth's disclosures
have been deficient from the December 2018 amendment to its
brochure onward.


                                    - 20 -
identified and disclosed these conflicts of interest" violated

Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and SEC Rule 206(4)-7.

           At the close of discovery, the SEC and Commonwealth each

cross-moved for summary judgment with supporting expert reports.

The SEC's in-house expert, Evgeny (Eugene) Orlov, described the

methodologies   he   used   to    reach   an   estimate   of   the   revenue

Commonwealth received from December 2014 to December 2018 from its

alleged violations.    He treated behavior during that time period

as constant and represented that he analyzed the extent to which

there were alternative, lower-cost share classes available to

Commonwealth's clients.          Orlov estimated that, of the $189.1

million in total revenue sharing Commonwealth received from NFS,

$155.6 million was "related to advisory client assets" with $61.3

million coming from NTF share classes, $77.0 million from TF share

classes, and $17.3 million from iNTF share classes.

           To estimate the number of share classes with lower cost

alternatives, Orlov chose to analyze initially only the ten fund

families in the NTF program that produced the highest revenue-

sharing payments to Commonwealth.         He then compared his ten fund-

family sample to the lower-cost alternative share classes of those

very same funds that were listed as available to Commonwealth

clients.   From this, he concluded that more than 80% of the revenue

from those fund families came from share classes with alternatives

that were less expensive for clients overall.             He conducted a


                                   - 21 -
similar analysis of the five highest-revenue fund families in the

TF/iNTF programs and concluded that more than fifty percent of

that revenue came from share classes with lower-cost alternatives.

            Orlov then purported to compare what he estimated to be

the revenue from these higher-cost share classes against the lesser

revenue Commonwealth would have received had clients been invested

in   the   lower-cost    share   classes    of   the   same   funds.   Orlov

extrapolated from these findings as to the fifteen fund families

to the much larger group of funds available through Commonwealth

as to which it had a conflict of interest.

            Orlov's conclusions and methodology were contested on

numerous    grounds     by   Commonwealth   experts.      One   Commonwealth

expert, Mark E. Potter, of the firm of Crowninshield Financial

Research, responded, saying that Orlov had erred in numerous ways.

To start, the SEC expert extrapolated from funds which were not

representative of the roughly 17,000 share classes approved by

Commonwealth.    Further, many of the lower-cost alternatives Orlov

identified would, if clients converted their shares to those

classes, result in the same or higher revenue-sharing payments to

Commonwealth.     Potter further opined that behavior during the

period in question was not static, but "[could] change over time"

based on changing "goals and objectives and situations."                 The

revenue-sharing payments Commonwealth received decreased over time




                                   - 22 -
relative   to   Commonwealth's     total    holdings,3   and    Commonwealth

clients were "being placed in lower revenue sharing programs" and

funds "at an increased rate over time."            Potter concluded that

each of these errors called into question the validity of Orlov's

reliance on only the highest revenue-sharing fund families.

           Potter also criticized Orlov for failing to account for

the impact of transaction fees when calculating whether a lower-

cost alternative to a particular share class existed.                 Potter

explained that representatives take into account more than just a

share class's expense ratio when building a client's portfolio,

"also    consider[ing]   whether    the     mix   of   active   or   passive

investments is a good fit for the client's goals and objectives."

Potter said that "[t]ransaction fees will have a greater impact on

smaller accounts, accounts that contain less liquid securities,

and accounts that have more need for rebalancing or periodic

withdrawals."    Using the fund PIMIX as an example of the impact

transaction fees would have on a representative's choice of share

class, Potter observed that "[a]t a cost of $24 per trade, it would

only take 3 trades" to make a fund with a higher-expense ratio


     3    Potter noted that the average monthly revenue went from
"roughly $2.5 million in July 2014 to about $3.6 million by
year-end 2018" while Commonwealth's total mutual fund holdings
increased substantially more, going from "$33.7 million in 2014 to
$61.8 million in 2018."     Another Commonwealth expert, Alex J.
Russell, of the firm Bates Group, LLC, likewise concluded that
"Client Assets that did not pay revenue sharing accounted for an
increasing percentage of all Client Assets" between 2014 and 2018.


                                   - 23 -
more cost-effective for a client planning to actively trade.

Potter cautioned that the impact of transaction fees is "not

necessarily predictable and Advisors may set up their clients'

portfolios to be nimble and flexible over time."

          The district court granted partial summary judgment to

the SEC as to Commonwealth's liability under Section 206(2).4   The

district court held that it was undisputed that Commonwealth was

an investment advisor within the meaning of the Advisers Act and

that it relied on the instrumentalities of interstate commerce to

conduct its business, as required by the Act.   The district court

further held that Commonwealth's disclosures were inadequate as a

matter of law.   The court reasoned that this was so because over

the period from 2014 to 2018 Commonwealth "present[ed] the payments

[Commonwealth] receive[d] from the revenue sharing arrangement as

a hypothetical rather than disclosing it as a matter of fact,"

"made no mention of the TF program revenue sharing or that the

arrangement was limited to non-Fidelity funds," and failed to

disclose that, in some cases, "class shares of the same fund


     4    The district court also held that Commonwealth violated
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and SEC Rule 206(4)-7, which
requires registered investment advisors to "[a]dopt and implement
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
violation" of the Advisers Act. 17 C.F.R. § 175.206(4)-7(a); 15
U.S.C.   § 80b-6(4).     The   district   court  concluded   that
Commonwealth's lack of a written policy as to disclosure of
conflicts of interest, and its inadequate disclosure of those
conflicts of interest in practice, sufficed to establish its
liability as a matter of law.


                              - 24 -
existed with lower internal expenses." The district court reasoned

that Commonwealth's arrangement with NFS was a material fact,

disclosure of which was required by the Advisers Act, because "[i]t

is well-settled that potential conflicts of interest are material

facts that investors would consider important in making investment

decisions."   (Quoting SEC v. Duncan, 19-CV-11735, 2021 WL 4197386,

at *10 (D. Mass. Sept. 15, 2021)).               The district court also

rejected    Commonwealth's    argument    that    the   fact   that   it   was

representatives who were unaware of Commonwealth's revenue-sharing

arrangement who gave investment advice to clients precluded entry

of summary judgment.         This was    because, among other things,

Commonwealth's Investment Team still exercised an "advisory role"

in the process by which representatives selected funds by "creating

model portfolios, the Mutual Fund Recommended List, and the Mutual

Fund Resource Guide."5

            Commonwealth moved for reconsideration of the district

court's summary judgment ruling, arguing that the district court

committed clear errors of law in granting summary judgment to the

SEC because the questions of "[w]hether Commonwealth's revenue-

sharing    arrangement . . .   would     be   material   to    a   reasonable


     5    The district court also determined that Commonwealth
acted with the requisite negligence because "Commonwealth's
revenue paying arrangement with NFS created undisclosed conflicts
of interest . . . , Commonwealth made material omissions in its
disclosure related to the arrangement," and so "Commonwealth was
negligent in its failure to fully disclose its economic conflicts."


                                 - 25 -
client" and whether its disclosures "provide[d] the information an

advisory client would reasonably need to understand and consent to

a conflict of interest" were matters for a jury.                Commonwealth

also argued that the issue of its negligence should have been sent

to a jury.          The district court denied Commonwealth's motion,

determining that Commonwealth's arguments as to materiality were

"the   same    as   Commonwealth's    materiality   arguments    on   summary

judgment" and that Commonwealth's argument that the SEC was not

entitled to summary judgment had not also explicitly argued that

the adequacy of its disclosures created a jury issue.

              The SEC then moved for entry of final judgment against

Commonwealth, submitting an additional expert declaration from

Eugene Orlov.       This additional declaration was in response to Mark

Potter's earlier criticism, at summary judgment, that Orlov's

report failed to account for the impact of transaction fees when

Orlov purported to determine the number of accounts invested in

share classes with lower cost alternatives.          The additional Orlov

declaration revised down Orlov's calculation of Commonwealth's

estimated revenue from NTF share classes from approximately $37.3

million to $34.1 million, to a lesser total incremental revenue of

approximately $65.5 million.

              Commonwealth,   in     response,   moved   to   introduce   an

additional declaration from its expert Alex J. Russell, proposing

an alternate total disgorgement calculation in the amount of


                                     - 26 -
approximately     $25.6   million.      The    SEC   moved    to   strike   this

declaration on the ground that it had not been disclosed during

discovery and was untimely.      The district court granted the SEC's

motion and struck Russell's declaration, reasoning that "the new,

alternative lower-cost share analysis offered by Russell in his

declaration falls squarely in the category of a new theory,

opinion,   or    methodology"   that    needed    to    be   "excluded   as   an

impermissible supplementary report."             (Quoting Zeolla v. Ford

Motor Co., No. 09-40106, 2013 WL 308968, at *11 (D. Mass. Jan. 24,

2014)). The district court stated that "both parties could foresee

from the inception of this case that disgorgement would be a

question if Commonwealth was found liable for violations of the

Advisers Act" and any proposed disgorgement analysis should have

been submitted earlier, at the summary judgment stage, "in rebuttal

to Orlov's original report."

           The    district   court    then    adopted   the   SEC's   proposed

disgorgement amount of $65,588,906.           It reasoned that disgorgement

in that amount, as calculated by Orlov, was appropriate because

the incremental revenue Commonwealth gained was causally connected

to Commonwealth's failure to disclose its conflicts of interest.6


     6    "Incremental revenue" was defined as "the difference
between the revenue Commonwealth received by allowing clients to
hold higher-cost NTF and TF share classes of funds and
Commonwealth's revenue had clients moved their investments to the
lower-cost share classes of those funds that paid less or no fees
via revenue sharing to Commonwealth."


                                     - 27 -
This was so, the court explained, because "Commonwealth's failure

to disclose its conflicts of interest kept clients invested in

higher-cost shares of Fund A rather than lower-cost shares also of

Fund A" and that, "[h]ad Commonwealth's clients known that they

were invested in higher-cost shares of funds for which lower-cost

shares existed, and that the higher cost resulted in greater profit

for Commonwealth, there is reason to believe that at least some of

those clients would have elected to move their money to the lower-

cost funds."   The district court declined to deduct Commonwealth's

expenses from the amount disgorged, reasoning that deduction of

expenses was unavailable "[w]here the entirety of the disgorgement

award is based on 'ill-gotten gains,'" which it found to be the

case here, where the "SEC ha[d] limited its disgorgement request

to incremental revenue Commonwealth received due to its failures

to disclose conflicts of interest, which are, in their entirety,

unlawful gain."    The district court then assessed prejudgment

interest in the amount of $22,191,790 and imposed a second-tier

civil penalty of $6,500,000.7   The district court denied the SEC's




     7    Courts may impose three tiers of penalties for
violations of the Advisers Act, based on the severity of the
underlying conduct.   See 15 U.S.C. § 80b-9(e)(2).    Second tier
penalties may be imposed "if the violation . . . involved fraud,
deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a
regulatory requirement" and the penalty may be equal to "the gross
amount of pecuniary gain . . . as a result of the violation." Id.
at § 80b-9(e)(2)(B).


                                - 28 -
request that Commonwealth be permanently enjoined from violating

the Advisers Act.

                       III. Legal Analyses

A. Error in Entry of Summary Judgment for SEC on Issues of
Liability

          Commonwealth argues that, on the facts of this case, the

issue of materiality should have gone to the jury, and this

requires reversal of the entry of summary judgment for the SEC.8


     8    In denying Commonwealth's motion for reconsideration
arguing that materiality is to be determined by a jury, the
district court stated that because Commonwealth had moved for entry
of summary judgment in its favor without explicitly arguing any
disputed facts should be determined by a jury, it could not "now
claim that adequacy was a jury question."      Commonwealth Equity
Servs., 718 F.Supp.3d at 118. A party's cross-motion for summary
judgment "does not constitute an agreement that if one [motion] is
rejected the other is necessarily justified or that the losing
party waives judicial consideration and determination whether
genuine issues of material fact exist. If any such issue exists
it must be disposed of by a plenary trial . . . ." Wiley v. Am.
Greetings Corp., 762 F.2d 139, 140-41 (1st Cir. 1985) (quoting
Rains v. Cascade Indus., Inc., 402 F.2d 241, 245 (3d Cir. 1968)).
     Commonwealth did not need to separately argue that, if its
motion was unsuccessful, disputed facts as to materiality must be
sent to a jury, as this is inherent in a summary judgment analysis.
If undisputed facts "support plausible but conflicting inferences
on a pivotal issue in the case, the judge may not choose between
those inferences at the summary judgment stage." McGurn v. Bell
Microprods., Inc., 284 F.3d 86, 93 (1st Cir. 2002) (emphasis added)
(quoting Coyne v. Taber Partners I, 53 F.3d 454, 460 (1st Cir.
1995)); see also Sherwood v. Wash. Post, 871 F.2d 1144, 1147 n.4
(D.C. Cir. 1989) (noting that when parties file cross-motions for
summary judgment, "each side concedes that no material facts are
at issue only for the purposes of its own motion" (quoting McKenzie
v. Sawyer, 684 F.2d 62, 68 n.3 (D.C. Cir. 1982))). Because the
SEC demanded a jury trial in its complaint, Commonwealth did not
need to do so. "Where one party has made a demand, others are
entitled to rely on the demand with respect to issues covered by
the demand and need not make an independent demand of their own."


                              - 29 -
Summary judgment is appropriate when "there is no genuine dispute

as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as

a matter of law."      Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a).          We review grants of

summary judgment de novo and draw all reasonable inferences in

favor of the nonmoving party, here, Commonwealth.               See Gibson

Found.,    Inc.   v.   Norris,   88   F.4th   1,   5    (1st   Cir.   2023).

Commonwealth argues that the question of whether the alleged

omission of certain statements was material constituted a jury

issue.    We agree.

           "Section 206 [of the Advisers Act] imposes a fiduciary

duty on investment advisors to act at all times in the best

interest of . . . its investors, and includes an obligation to

provide 'full and fair disclosure of all material facts' to

investors and independent trustees of the fund."           SEC v. Tambone,

550 F.3d 106, 146 (1st Cir. 2008) (quoting SEC v. Cap. Gains Rsch.

Bureau, 375 U.S. 180, 194 (1963)), reh'g en banc granted on other

grounds, opinion withdrawn, 573 F.3d 54 (1st Cir. 2009), and

opinion reinstated in part on reh'g on other grounds, 597 F.3d 436

(1st Cir. 2010).       Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224 (1988),

establishes the standard for materiality, holding that the test

for materiality stated in TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc.,



In re N-500L Cases, 691 F.2d 15, 22 (1st Cir. 1982); see also SEC
v. Jarkesy, 603 U.S. 109, 140 (2024) ("A defendant facing a fraud
suit has the right to be tried by a jury of his peers before a
neutral adjudicator.").


                                  - 30 -
426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976), was the best way to realize the "various

Securities Acts[']," Basic, 485 U.S. at 234, policy of "full

disclosure," id. (quoting Cap. Gains Rsch. Bureau, 375 U.S. at

186).    The TSC Industries materiality standard states that

           [a]n omitted fact is material if there is a
           substantial likelihood that a reasonable
           shareholder would consider it important in
           deciding how to vote . . . . Put another way,
           there must be a substantial likelihood that
           the disclosure of the omitted fact would have
           been viewed by the reasonable investor as
           having significantly altered the "total mix"
           of information made available.


TSC Indus., 426 U.S. at 449.    The Court in TSC Industries went on

to caution that determining whether an omitted fact is material

           requires   delicate    assessments   of   the
           inferences a "reasonable shareholder" would
           draw from a given set of facts and the
           significance of those inferences to him, and
           these assessments are peculiarly ones for the
           trier of fact.      Only if the established
           omissions are "so obviously important to an
           investor, that reasonable minds cannot differ
           on the question of materiality" is the
           ultimate issue of materiality appropriately
           resolved "as a matter of law" by summary
           judgment.


Id. at 450 (quoting Johns Hopkins Univ. v. Hutton, 422 F.2d 1124,

1129 (4th Cir. 1970)).     Since then, this circuit has also held

that "[t]he determination of materiality is typically left to the

jury."   SEC v. Lemelson, 57 F.4th 17, 25 (1st Cir. 2023); see also

In re Cabletron Systems, Inc., 311 F.3d 11, 34 (1st Cir. 2002)



                               - 31 -
("In general, the materiality of a statement or omission is a

question of fact that should normally be left to a jury . . . .").

          As we explain further on, the usual rule that materiality

is to be decided by the jury applies in this case.     But first we

deal with the district court's error of law in its holding that,

as a matter of law, under a per se rule, the SEC was entitled to

summary judgment as to materiality.    Even the SEC does not argue

to us that entry of summary judgment in its favor is justified by

application of any such per se rule.   It has cited no circuit case,

nor have we found any, which substitutes a per se materiality rule

for the summary judgment standard.      The district court did not

engage in the required "fact-specific inquiry" and instead rested

on a generalized per se conclusion that "[i]t is indisputable that

potential conflicts of interest are 'material' facts with respect

to clients."   Commonwealth Equity Servs., 2023 WL 2838691, at *12

(quoting Vernazza v. SEC, 327 F.3d 851, 859 (9th Cir. 2003)).   The

district court cited two out-of-circuit decisions which it viewed

as articulating such a per se rule.      See Vernazza, 327 F.3d at

859, amended, 335 F.3d 1096 (9th Cir. 2003); Robare Grp., Ltd. v.

SEC, 922 F.3d 468, 472 (D.C. Cir. 2019).   These cases do not alter

the standard the Supreme Court and this circuit have articulated

for materiality.   They are also not the law of this circuit and

are easily distinguishable.




                              - 32 -
           Vernazza involved a petition for review in the courts of

an SEC administrative order, entered after a hearing before an

administrative law judge. Vernazza, 327 F.3d at 857. The petition

for   review   dealt   with    issues   of   scienter,    not   whether   any

misrepresentations were material. See id. at 857-58. The district

court quoted a sentence from Vernazza that "[i]t is indisputable

that potential conflicts of interest are 'material' facts with

respect to clients and the Commission."              Commonwealth Equity

Servs., 2023 WL 2838691, at *10 (quoting Vernazza, 327 F.3d at

859). That sentence is itself drawn from language in SEC v. Capital

Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. at 180, stating that an

investment advisor must "fully and fairly reveal[] his personal

interests in [his] recommendations to his clients," see Vernazza,

327 F.3d at 859 (citing Cap. Gains Rsch. Bureau, 375 U.S. at 201).

But the issue in Capital Gains Research Bureau was not about entry

of summary judgment, rather         that case was        about the correct

statutory interpretation of 15 U.S.C. § 80b-6, the Investment

Advisers Act of 1940.         See Cap. Gains Rsch. Bureau, 375 U.S. at

181 (holding that the practice of "'scalping' . . . 'operates as

a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client' within

the meaning of the [Investment Advisers] Act" (quoting 15 U.S.C.

§ 80b-6(2))).    Capital Gains Research Bureau did not alter the

standards for summary judgment, and both TSC Industries and Basic

post-date that decision.


                                   - 33 -
               Robare also involved a petition for review of an SEC

administrative order entered after an evidentiary hearing before

an administrative law judge.                   Robare Grp., Ltd., 922 F.3d at 473.

The    district       court      quoted       from    Robare's      statement        that    "the

Securities and Exchange Commission has long held that '[f]ailure

by    an    investment      adviser       to    disclose         potential        conflicts    of

interest to its clients constitutes fraud within the meaning of

Sections 206(1) and (2),'" id. at 472 (alteration in original);

see Commonwealth Equity Servs., 2023 WL 2838691, at *12 (quoting

Robare Grp., Ltd., 922 F.3d at 472).                        That statement from Robare

cited only to an SEC release, Fundamental Portfolio Advisors, Inc.,

Investment Advisers Act Release No. 2146, 80 SEC Docket 1851, 2003

WL 21658248, at *15 & n.54 (Jul. 15, 2003).                          The quoted statement

from       Robare    was    simply       an     acknowledgement            that    undisclosed

conflicts       of    interest      fall       within      the    statutory        language    of

Sections      206(1)       and   (2)     of    the     Advisers      Act    of     1940,    which

respectively prohibit "any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud"

and    "any    transaction,        practice,          or    course    of     business       which

operates as a fraud or deceit."                      15 U.S.C. § 80b-6(1)-(2).

               Both Vernazza and Robare are also inapplicable because

of the difference in standards of review.                        The standards of review

for    grants       of   summary       judgment       are    very    different       from     the

substantial evidence standard of review when the SEC seeks to

enforce       its    orders      after    there       have   been     proceedings          before


                                              - 34 -
administrative law judges.    See Flannery v. SEC, 810 F.3d 1, 8-9

(1st Cir. 2015).   Our review of entry of summary judgment is de

novo and is not at all the same as the substantial evidence rule.

"[S]uch [substantial evidence] review is deferential."        Jarkesy,

603 U.S. at 117. "By law, a reviewing court must treat the agency's

factual findings as 'conclusive' if sufficiently supported by the

record, even when they rest on evidence that could not have been

admitted in federal court."        Id. (citations omitted).   That is

simply not this case.

          These cases on which the district court relied also

predate the Supreme Court's decision in SEC v. Jarkesy, which held

that the Seventh Amendment right to a jury trial applies to SEC

securities enforcement actions of its administrative orders, see

id. at 125, and that "every encroachment upon [the jury trial

right] has been watched with great jealousy," id. at 122 (quoting

Parsons v. Bedford, 28 U.S. 433, 446 (1830)).

          In essence, the district court held that, in its view,

since all potential conflicts are material, the omissions at issue

were material as a matter of law.       Applying the correct test of

materiality, we hold that a reasonable jury could conclude, on the

facts of this case, that additional disclosures with more precise

descriptions,   added   to   the    already-disclosed   conflicts   of

interest, would not have so "significantly altered the 'total mix'

of information made available,"        Basic Inc., 485 U.S. at 232


                               - 35 -
(emphasis added) (quoting TSC Indus., 426 U.S. at 449), that

summary judgment was appropriate.

            Commonwealth's      advisory      client    base      in   2018   was

estimated to include more than 319,000 investors served by 2,300

representatives.       Those investors differed in many categories of

ways, including as to the types of investors, types of investments,

types of investment goals they set, and what advice they received

from their representatives.           The SEC's motion and supporting

evidence in many ways assumed that these investors were identically

situated.    Yet a reasonable jury could find those assumptions

questionable and not substantiated.              The SEC did not provide

testimony    from     any   Commonwealth      clients   or     representatives

describing     the    significance    they    attribute      to    the   omitted

information.     Five of the six representatives the SEC deposed

testified, either explicitly or implicitly, that the overall price

of a share class was a factor they considered when determining

what share class of a mutual fund to purchase for their clients,

but only a factor.          They also testified that they were not

necessarily looking for the absolute lowest-cost share class for

their clients.       And it does not follow that, simply because a share

class was the lowest available cost, this was significant in the

materiality sense to these representatives and their clients.

            Indeed, Commonwealth's capacity to indirectly influence

clients toward more profitable share classes (that at times were


                                     - 36 -
costly for clients) was tied to its recommendations in its Mutual

Fund Resource Guide and selected portfolios in its PPS Select and

Direct programs.         But clients made their investment decisions

through     their   representatives        rather       than    Commonwealth's

recommendations      or      pre-constructed        portfolios.            These

representatives     were    themselves    sophisticated        and   independent

members of the financial industry who recommended to their clients

the funds and share classes to be purchased.                   Four of the six

representatives conducted independent research to determine what

share class was best for a particular client.             One representative

testified    that   he     never   used   Commonwealth's        preconstructed

portfolios or Mutual Fund Resource Guide.               There is no evidence

that Commonwealth limited or otherwise affected representatives'

ability to research and assess the comparative cost of funds.

Further, representatives looking to purchase a fund could use that

fund's publicly available prospectus to compare the various share

classes and find one that best suited their clients' investment

strategy.    Cf. SEC v. Washington Inv. Network, 475 F.3d 392, 405

(D.C. Cir. 2007) ("[T]he public availability of information is a

relevant    consideration     when    evaluating    a    party's     disclosure

obligations . . . .").       There are material issues of fact as to

the importance of price, Commonwealth's influence over the funds

selected, and about the significance of the allegedly deficient




                                     - 37 -
disclosures, themselves.        It is the role of a jury to determine

those questions.

           The SEC relies heavily on this court's decision in SEC

v. Navellier & Associates, Inc., 108 F.4th 19 (1st Cir. 2024).              It

misreads the decision.       This court's decision in Navellier is

consistent with our result.        In Navellier, we held that, on the

facts there, the appellants' omissions were material as a matter

of law because the omissions spoke "to the potential risk that an

investor w[ould] take if they decide[d] to invest," and disclosure

of the omitted information "'would obviously change the perceived'

risk of investing." Id. at 37 (quoting SEC v. Bauer, 723 F.3d 758,

773 (7th Cir. 2013)).     Not so here.     As we said above, it is not

obvious that the omitted facts from Commonwealth's conflict of

interest would have changed the investors' perceptions, given

their use of the investment advice of sophisticated intermediaries

in the form of Commonwealth's representatives.              Further, the only

direct testimony in the record goes to the importance of price to

a Commonwealth representative, not "how . . . clients themselves"

or even the deposed representatives "considered the [conflict] at

issue."    Id. at 38.    While we are mindful that "the SEC [is] not

required    to   prove   that    any   investor       actually    relied    on

[Appellants']    misrepresentations,"      id.   at    37    (alterations   in

original) (quoting SEC v. World Tree Fin., LLC, 43 F.4th 448, 465

(5th Cir. 2022)), we conclude that reasonable minds could differ


                                  - 38 -
on the question of materiality in this case and summary judgment

is inappropriate.9

B. Error as to the Disgorgement Award

          Because we vacate the liability judgment, necessarily

the disgorgement award must also be vacated.         Should a jury find

liability in whole or in part and should the issue of disgorgement

arise again on remand, the district court must consider anew

whether the SEC has adequately established causal relationships

between Commonwealth's profits and its alleged violations, as well

as whether Commonwealth is entitled to deduct its expenses from

any disgorgement awarded.       The district court made concerning,

fundamental    legal   errors   as   to   these   issues   in   its   prior

disgorgement calculations.

          "While monetary relief can be legal or equitable, money

damages are the prototypical common law remedy."            Jarkesy, 603

U.S. at 123.    Disgorgement may only be ordered in an amount that

is "a reasonable approximation of profits causally connected to

the [underlying] violation."      Navellier, 108 F.4th at 42 (quoting

SEC v. Happ, 392 F.3d 12, 31 (1st Cir. 2004)).         The SEC bears the

burden of showing that the amount it seeks in disgorgement is a



     9    Because the district court's orders finding Commonwealth
liable for violating Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule
206(4)-7 were based on substantially the same reasoning as
Commonwealth's Section 206(2) liability, they also present
material issues of fact that should have been sent to a jury.


                                 - 39 -
reasonable approximation of the defendant's unjust enrichment.

See Happ, 392 F.3d at 31.       "[T]he causal connection required is

between the amount by which the defendant was unjustly enriched,"

that is, "the amount . . . by which the defendant profited from

[their] wrongdoing," and "the amount [they] can be required to

disgorge."     Navellier, 108 F.4th at 41, 43 (third alteration in

original) (first quoting SEC v. Banner Fund Int'l, 211 F.3d 602,

617 (D.C. Cir. 2000); then quoting CFTC v. JBW Cap., 812 F.3d 98,

111 (1st Cir. 2016); then quoting Banner, 211 F.3d at 617).             It is

also clear that "enrichment, if sufficiently attenuated, no longer

appears unjust."      Restatement (Third) of Restitution and Unjust

Enrichment § 51 cmt. f (Am. L. Inst. 2011).

           On this record, the SEC has not adequately shown either

reasonable   approximation     or    causal    connection    sufficient   to

support the court's disgorgement award. The district court adopted

in total the $65,588,906 sum the SEC alleged was representative of

Commonwealth's profits.      See Commonwealth Equity Servs., 2024 WL

1375970, at *11. The district court justified the use of the SEC's

entire sum as a disgorgement award by reasoning that causation was

"self-evident" because "at least some" clients would have moved

money to lower-cost funds had Commonwealth more fully disclosed

its conflict of interest. Id. at *7.            This is not the relevant

standard   and   it   is   incompatible      with   the   requirement   that

disgorgement     represent     "a      reasonable     approximation"      of


                                    - 40 -
Commonwealth's unjust enrichment.           Happ, 392 F.3d at 31 (quoting

SEC v. First City Fin. Corp., 890 F.3d 1215, 1231 (D.C. Cir.

1989)).    The district court's "at least some" standard encompasses

too   wide    a   range   of   possibilities.        Although   "a   reasonable

approximation" obviously need not be exact, it requires more

analysis and connection than is provided to move from "a few"

investors to "every" investor.

             The district court must also consider and address the

numerous shortcomings in the SEC's causation evidence.                     These

include (1) the criticisms raised by Commonwealth's experts as to

the representativeness of the sample Orlov used to calculate the

number       of   lower-cost,      alternative        share     classes;    (2)

countervailing       evidence     of     causation     in     statements   from

Commonwealth representatives; and (3) the inadequately supported

assumptions made by the SEC, as discussed in our analysis of

materiality above.

             The district court must assess whether Commonwealth is

entitled to deduct any of its expenses from the disgorgement

awarded.      Courts awarding disgorgement "must deduct legitimate

expenses before ordering disgorgement."              Liu v. SEC, 591 U.S. 71,

91-92 (2020). The Supreme Court has recognized a limited exception

to this rule "when the 'entire profit of a business or undertaking'

results from the wrongdoing."           Id. at 92 (quoting Root v. Railway

Co., 105 U.S. 189, 203 (1882)).            Even in such cases, courts may


                                       - 41 -
only decline to deduct those expenses that are determined to be

"inequitable,"      such   as    "unconscionable       claims       for   personal

services," id. at 84, 92 (quoting Root, 105 U.S. at 203), expenses

"bought for the purposes of the [wrongful activity]," id. at 84,

or "extraordinary salaries," id. (quoting Providence Rubber Co. v.

Goodyear, 78 U.S. 788, 803 (1869)).                 This exception "requires

ascertaining whether expenses are legitimate or whether they are

merely wrongful gains 'under another name.'"                 Id. at 92 (quoting

Goodyear, 78 U.S. at 803).

            The issues we have identified with the SEC's causation

evidence    raise   similar     concerns   as   to    whether    Commonwealth's

entire profit is properly attributable to its alleged wrongdoing.

If   the   district    court    again   concludes     that    the    entirety      of

Commonwealth's        profit    resulted     from     wrongdoing,         it     must

nevertheless then "ascertain[]" whether each of Commonwealth's

claimed    expenses    were    "legitimate,"    in    that    they    had      "value

independent of fueling a fraudulent scheme,"10 and were subject to

deduction notwithstanding the Liu exception.                 See id.; see also



      10  On appeal, Commonwealth disputes the district court's
characterization of its requested deduction for expenses, arguing
that it sought a deduction in the amount of $10.8 million, not
$49.5 million as the district court found. See Commonwealth, 2024
WL 1375970, at *11. Because we remand this case to the district
court on the issue of liability and, should Commonwealth again be
found liable for violating the Advisers Act, with instructions to
ascertain   which   of   Commonwealth's   claimed  expenses   may
legitimately be deducted, we express no opinion on this issue.


                                    - 42 -
SEC v. O'Brien, No. 23-1071, 2024 WL 2813722, at *2 (2d Cir. June

3, 2024) ("Courts must 'deduct legitimate expenses' associated

with the defendant's proceeds from his wrongdoing." (emphasis

added) (quoting Liu, 591 U.S. at 91-92)); SEC v. Team Res. Inc.,

No. 22-10359, 2023 WL 1434277, at *2 (5th Cir. Feb. 1, 2023) (per

curiam) ("Liu held that an order of disgorgement . . . is limited

to   a   defendant's   net   profits,    meaning   a   court   must   deduct

legitimate business expenses when calculating the award." (second

emphasis added)).

                                   IV.

            For the reasons stated, we vacate the district court's

grant of summary judgment to the SEC and the disgorgement order

and remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

No costs are awarded.




                                 - 43 -