     IN THE COURT OF CHANCERY OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE

WAUNYE CALM, BRANDON
GATEWOOD, ISAIAH HARBER,
JYAIRE HENRY, DEWITT JOHNSON,
ZAKEE LLOYD, DENNIS WILLIAMS,
and DEVON YOUNG,

             Plaintiffs,

      v.                                        C.A. No. 2026-0576-JTL
TERRA TAYLOR, in her official capacity
as Commissioner of the Delaware
Department of Correction,

             Defendant.

                OPINION ADDRESSING THRESHOLD ISSUES

                           Date Submitted: June 18, 2026
                            Date Decided: July 17, 2026

Jason H. Beehler, Jared Silberglied, Andrew Bernstein, ACLU OF DELAWARE,
Wilmington, Delaware; Attorneys for Plaintiffs Waunye Calm, Brandon Gatewood,
Isaiah Harber, Jyaire Henry, Dewitt Johnson, Zakee Lloyd, Dennis Williams, and
Devon Young.

Joseph S. Naylor, Nicholas E. Skiles, Allison Texter, Robert S. Goldman, Bryan P.
Smith, SWARTZ CAMPBELL LLC, Wilmington, Delaware; Jennifer Kate Aaronson,
STATE OF DELAWARE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, Wilmington, Delaware;
Attorneys for Defendant Terra Taylor, in her official capacity as Commissioner of the
Delaware Department of Correction.

LASTER, V.C.
       Oleoresin capsicum (“OC”) is a chemical agent derived from the heat-

generating compounds in chili peppers and concentrated to achieve high potency.

Exposure to OC causes intense pain. Short-term effects include difficulty breathing,

uncontrollable coughing, temporary blindness, and a burning sensation in the eyes

and throat and on the skin.

       Those attributes make OC an effective non-kinetic weapon. The Delaware

Department of Correction (the “Department”) uses law-enforcement-grade OC

weapons to maintain the safety and security of Delaware prisons.

       The plaintiffs are prisoners in the Department’s care. They contend that

correction officers frequently use OC weapons on prisoners without permitting

decontamination, even after they are compliant and any disturbances are under

control. They do not challenge the initial use of force. They challenge only the absence

of decontamination once they are compliant and the area is secure.

       The prisoners contend that an absence of decontamination under those

circumstances constitutes a “cruel punishment” that violates Article I, Section 11 of

the Delaware Constitution (the “Cruel Punishment Clause”). They have sued the

Commissioner of the Department in her official capacity on behalf of a putative class

of incarcerated persons in Delaware, defined to include both convicted prisoners and

pre-trial detainees. They seek declaratory relief and an injunction barring correction

officers   from   using   OC   until   the   Department   implements     an   adequate

decontamination policy.

       The case moved forward on an expedited basis, and the court has conducted an
evidentiary hearing on the plaintiffs’ application for a preliminary injunction. But

although the case rapidly moved beyond the pleading stage, the Commissioner has

moved to dismiss the complaint as non-justiciable. She argues that the complaint fails

to identify a threatened injury sufficient to give the plaintiffs standing to seek

injunctive relief. She also contends that the plaintiffs’ request for declaratory relief is

not yet ripe. And she contends that actions taken after the lawsuit was filed render

it moot.

      The Commissioner likewise opposes the plaintiffs’ application for a

preliminary injunction. In addition to arguing that the plaintiffs have not met the

standard to obtain injunctive relief, she contends that no private right of action exists

under the Cruel Punishment Clause. She also contends that even if one existed, the

Cruel Punishment Clause would not afford the plaintiffs any rights beyond what the

Eighth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution confers, and Eighth Amendment

jurisprudence defeats the plaintiffs’ claim.

      Those arguments present a mix of issues, some turning on issues of law, and

others dependent on the evidence adduced during the preliminary injunction hearing.

This decision addresses threshold issues that present issues of law or where the

Commissioner seeks dismissal based on the allegations in the plaintiffs’ complaint.

      This decision holds that the plaintiffs have standing to seek injunctive relief.

Under state law, the plaintiffs must have a reasonable apprehension of injury.

Federal decisions imposing a higher standard are not controlling. The complaint’s

allegations satisfy the state law test. When the plaintiffs sued, the Department

                                            2
lacked any written policy on decontamination, leaving the matter to correction

officers’ discretion. The complaint’s allegations support an inference that correction

officers regularly fail to facilitate prisoner decontamination, even after prisoners are

compliant and the surrounding area is secure. Several plaintiffs claim to have

experienced this problem multiple times. All but two of the plaintiffs filed grievances

that resulted in no action being taken. The reasonable-apprehension test is met.

      This decision holds that the request for declaratory relief is ripe. When the

plaintiffs sued, there was no indication that the Department would address the

decontamination issue without judicial intervention. Litigation over the issue was

inevitable.

      This decision holds that a private right of action exists under the Cruel

Punishment Clause that enables the plaintiffs to seek injunctive and declaratory

relief. This decision does not reach the more difficult question of whether a violation

of the Cruel Punishment Clause could support a damages award.

      This decision does not address whether the Cruel Punishment Clause can

afford protection beyond what the Eighth Amendment confers. That question is

closely tied to the evidentiary showing the plaintiffs must make to obtain a

preliminary injunction. This decision also does not reach the fact-laden issues that

depend on the evidence presented during the preliminary injunction hearing, such as

whether the plaintiffs have made the necessary showing and whether the

Commissioner’s adoption of a decontamination policy mid-way through this litigation

moots the case. The court can only reach those issues after resolving the

                                           3
Commissioner’s threshold arguments. A separate decision addressing those issues

will follow promptly.

                         I.     FACTUAL BACKGROUND

      For purposes of the threshold issues that this decision addresses, the facts are

drawn from the operative complaint (the “Complaint”), documents it incorporates by

reference, and documents subject to judicial notice.1 For purposes of the threshold

issues, the court accepts the Complaint’s well-pled allegations as true and draws all

reasonable inferences in the plaintiffs’ favor.

A.    What Is OC?

      OC is a chemical agent derived from capsaicinoids, which are the heat-

generating compounds in chili peppers. The potency of a product containing OC can

be measured using Scoville Heat Units (“SHU”). The higher the number, the more

intense the heat. Ordinary bell peppers have a Scoville heat rating of zero SHU.

Jalapeño peppers range from 3,500 to 8,000 SHU. A cayenne pepper falls between

30,000 and 50,000 SHU. A habanero chili pepper weighs in between 200,000 and

350,000 SHU.

      A variety of OC weapons exist on the market. Civilian-grade products start at

potencies of 500,000 SHU. Law-enforcement-grade products start at potencies of 1

million SHU. Bear spray typically ranges from 2 million to 4 million SHU.




      1 Citations in the form “Compl. ¶ __” refer to paragraphs of the Complaint,

which is the operative pleading. Dkt. 1. Citations in the form “Ex. __ at __” refer to
exhibits to the Complaint. Id.

                                           4
      OC contamination can result from direct physical contact, indirect or

secondary contact, or area contamination. The effects of OC contamination depend on

the potency of the product and the degree of exposure. Serious symptoms typically

subside over the course of hours. OC is biodegradable and decomposes naturally.

Depending on conditions, it becomes undetectable within days to weeks.

B.    The Department’s OC Weapons

      The Department uses OC weapons when maintaining the safety and security

of Delaware prisons. The Department deploys the Level 3 Sabre Red (“Sabre Red”)

line of products.

      On the Scoville scale, Sabre Red has a heat rating of 2 million SHU, the

starting potency for bear spray. Another metric for measuring OC potency is major

capsaicinoid content (“MCC”), which measures the concentration of heat-producing

compounds. Sabre Red has 1.33% MCC, the highest MCC rating that Sabre offers for

use on humans. Higher MCC ratings can melt human skin.

      Each correction officer receives the Sabre Red MK-2 Trigger Top handheld

canister, which contains Sabre Red in aerosol form. The Department stocks other OC

weapons containing Sabre Red, including aerosol grenades, sprayable aerosol gel, a

high-capacity “Cell Buster” fogger spray, pepper-ball guns, and a 40-millimeter OC

“muzzle blast” fired from a launcher.

      Sabre Red causes intense pain and a burning sensation in the eyes and throat

and on the skin. Other short-term physical effects may include difficulty breathing,

uncontrollable coughing, and temporary blindness. Short-term psychological effects


                                         5
may include feelings of suffocation, helplessness, and overwhelming panic. A human

exposed to OC may temporarily be unable to hear others.

C.    Decontamination

      Decontamination     is   the   process   of   removing   OC    after   exposure.

Decontamination allows the effects of OC to dissipate as quickly as possible.

      OC weapons come with instructions for decontaminating exposed individuals.

Sabre Red’s manufacturer provides an instructional video—not specifically directed

at correctional facilitators or prisoners—that calls for flushing the individual’s eyes

with fresh water for at least fifteen minutes, using a decontaminating agent several

times on the individual’s face, then rinsing each eye for another five minutes. The

video also suggests applying a soothing solution.

      Failing to decontaminate after exposure to OC is dangerous and can be lethal.

Significant exposures can result in eye injuries, lung problems, and skin injuries.

When sprayed at a close distance, OC can enter eye tissue and skin, causing

lacerations. Other possible skin injuries include chemical burns, blisters, and

persistent dermatitis. Possible lung injuries include shortness of breath, scarring,

and respiratory failure. Effects can be more severe for individuals with health

conditions like asthma.

      Other jurisdictions have reported deaths due to OC exposure without

decontamination. Fortunately, Delaware has not yet faced a lethal OC incident.

D.    The Department’s Use-Of-Force Policy

      The Department maintains a use-of-force policy that states:


                                          6
      The use-of-force policy encompasses OC weapons but does not address

decontamination. The use-of-force policy authorizes using reasonable force to obtain

compliance with orders from staff and to “(1) control disruptive or violent offenders,

(2) enforce or restore order, (3) defend oneself against unwanted physical contact or

harm, (4) protect other persons from imminent death, serious bodily harm, or physical

harm, (5) protect state property, (6) prevent escapes or capture escaped/ing inmates,

(7) administer non-emergent and emergent involuntary medications prescribed by a

qualified health professional and (8) apply clinical or therapeutic restraints

authorized by a qualified health professional.”2

      The Department tracks uses of force in its facilities. Every Delaware correction

officer carries an MK-2 aerosol canister on their duty belt during shifts. The vast

majority of the Department’s use-of-force incidents involve OC weapons. On average,




      2 Ex. L at 1.


                                          7
correction officers deploy OC in Delaware prisons around twice per day.

      In this lawsuit, the plaintiffs do not challenge any initial decision to use force.

They challenge what they claim are frequent failures by correction officers to

facilitate decontamination after OC use. The prisoners concede that the safety and

security of a facility and its occupants take precedence. They maintain that correction

officers fail to permit decontamination after prisoners have become compliant and the

area is secure.

E.    The Department’s Training Guidelines

      Before this litigation, the Department did not have a written policy on OC

decontamination. Correction officers used their own judgment.

      Before this litigation, the Department did train correction officers on the use

of OC weapons and proper decontamination. Correction officer candidates attending

the Department’s academy must complete a twelve-week training course that

includes a unit on OC. Correction officers must score seventy percent or higher on a

written test covering the training.

      Historically, the OC training unit at the academy included a presentation

titled “OC Aerosols.”3 It instructed correction officers to spray OC from a distance of

at least three feet, spray in one-to-two second bursts, and pause and evaluate before

spraying more.




      3 Ex. A at DOC_SCI_0041428. The Department is currently updating the
training materials to reflect its new policy.

                                           8
      The training presentation stated that after using the OC, the officer should

“[s]tart decontamination process and have [the exposed person] seen by medical.”4

The presentation instructed officers to “completely” decontaminate exposed

individuals.5

      One of the slides in the presentation underscored the decontamination

requirement with bolded, all-caps text and a red skull and crossbones.




The instructor’s notes for the slide contain the following additional information:




      4 Id. at DOC_SCI_0041446.


      5 Id. at DOC_SCI_0041455.


                                          9
The slide notes direct the instructor to ensure the trainees understand the

decontamination guidelines. They also remind the instructor to administer a written

test on the material.

      After joining the Department, correction officers must periodically attend

refresher trainings on various topics, including OC use.

F.    OC Incidents Without Decontamination

      The eight plaintiffs are currently incarcerated in Delaware. They allege that

despite the Department’s training materials, correction officers regularly fail to

facilitate decontamination, even after prisoners are compliant and the area is secure.

They allege that the failures to decontaminate have resulted in extreme and

persistent pain. All allege having an ongoing fear that they could be subjected to OC

weapons at any time, without any reason, without decontamination.

      Six of the eight plaintiffs filed grievance reports about their OC incidents. None

of the grievances resulted in any change to the Department’s practices. A seventh

plaintiff was told he had to contact Department investigators first. He contacted the

investigators and never received a response.
                                         10
      Plaintiff Dewitt Johnson alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC

on three occasions: once in 2022, a second time on October 22, 2025, and a third time

on January 24, 2026. Each time, he was never decontaminated. Instead, he was sent

to solitary confinement. After each incident, he was not allowed to shower for at least

twenty-four hours. Johnson has asthma and uses an albuterol inhaler daily. After the

second and third incidents, he was not given his inhaler. Johnson filed a grievance

with the Department, but it was not processed. Johnson contends that each exposure

to OC without decontamination resulted in extreme and persistent pain that lasted

several days.

      Plaintiff Zakee Lloyd alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC on

two occasions, once on March 4, 2024, and a second time in April or May. Each time,

he was never decontaminated. After each incident, he was not allowed to shower for

at least twenty-four hours. Lloyd continued to feel a burning sensation even after

showering. He tried to file a grievance, but he was told he had to contact Department

investigators first. He contacted them and never received a response. Lloyd contends

that each exposure to OC without decontamination resulted in extreme and

persistent pain that lasted several days.

      Plaintiff Dennis Williams alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC

on December 12, 2025. He was never decontaminated. Instead, he was sent to solitary

confinement. Once there, he tried to decontaminate using water from the sink and

toilet, but stopped when the water caused the burning sensation to increase. Williams

has asthma. He was allowed two puffs on his inhaler after he was sprayed, then the

                                            11
inhaler was taken away when he was sent to solitary confinement. He was not given

his inhaler until several hours after the incident. He also suffers from Crohn’s

disease. Since the incident, Williams struggles with breathing, his vision is blurred,

and he suffers from persistent headaches. Every time he washes his hair or sweats

while sleeping, he feels a painful burning sensation. Williams was sprayed in the eyes

at point-blank range, and his vision is impaired. He filed grievance reports, which

were denied.

      Plaintiff Devon Young alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC on

January 30, 2026. Young struggled to breathe and had a panic attack. He was never

decontaminated. He was not allowed to shower for at least a day. Young has asthma,

and he uses an inhaler daily. After the incident, he asked for his inhaler but was

refused. Young has nightmares about the incident and has issues with sleeping,

anxiety, and appetite loss. Young filed a grievance and was told that correction

officers do not deal with OC issues.

      Plaintiff Jyaire Henry alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC on

October 3, 2025. He was never decontaminated. Correction officers took him to his

cell, where he tried to remove the OC but stopped when the water increased the

burning sensation. Henry was not allowed to shower for at least twenty-four hours.

He filed a grievance the next day. After several months, Henry received a response

consisting of a single piece of paper with a case number, without any substantive

reply. Henry contends that his exposure to OC without decontamination resulted in

extreme and persistent pain for at least twenty-four hours.

                                         12
      Plaintiff Isaiah Harber alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC on

December 12, 2025. He was never decontaminated. He was not allowed to shower for

two days. He still has trouble breathing. On one occasion, he passed out and was

taken to the hospital. Harber has seen medical personnel for his breathing issues, but

he has not received any medications or breathing treatments. He suffers from chronic

nightmares. Harber filed multiple grievances and received no response.

      Plaintiff Brandon Gatewood alleges that correction officers sprayed him with

OC in August 2022. He was never decontaminated. He was not allowed to shower for

a day. Since then, Gatewood’s sense of smell has been greatly diminished, and he can

no longer smell food most of the time. The next day, Gatewood filed a grievance, which

was dismissed. Gatewood contends that his exposure to OC without decontamination

resulted in extreme and persistent pain for twenty-four hours.

      Plaintiff Waunye Calm alleges that correction officers sprayed him with OC in

November 2025. He was never decontaminated. Instead, correction officers took him

to his cell, where he tried to remove the OC with water but stopped when it increased

the burning and itching sensation. Calm contends that his exposure to OC without

decontamination resulted in extreme and persistent pain that lasted several days.

His skin continued to burn and itch for about a week.

      Each plaintiff states in an affidavit that in addition to their exposures, they

witnessed Delaware correction officers use OC weapons on other prisoners without

subsequent decontamination. The parties also refer to affidavits from five non-

plaintiff prisoners who aver that correction officers sprayed them with OC without

                                         13
subsequent decontamination.

      The Complaint refers to three federal cases challenging the Department’s use

of OC weapons. In Davis v. Neal, correction officers allegedly sprayed dozens of

prisoners who were removed from the contaminated area but not decontaminated.6

In Flores v. Emig, correction officers allegedly used Sabre Red spray, OC grenades,

and a pepper-ball launcher on prisoners without subsequent decontamination.7 In

Cropper v. Parke, correction officers allegedly fired dozens of OC pepper-ball rounds

at a prisoner without subsequent decontamination.8

G.    This Litigation

      On May 7, 2026, the plaintiffs filed this putative class action on behalf of all

incarcerated persons in Delaware, defined to include both prisoners and pre-trial

detainees.9 They sued Terra Taylor in her official capacity as the Commissioner.

Taylor directs all Delaware prison operations, including supervising the use-of-force

policy, correction officers’ compliance training programs, the grievance procedure,

and any measures to discipline correction officers.




      6 No. 1:21-cv-1773 (D. Del.).


      7 No. 1:25-cv-100 (D. Del.).


      8 No. 1:25-cv-812 (D. Del.).


      9 See Compl. ¶¶ 261, 263 & n.33. All of the named plaintiffs are prisoners, and

the Complaint uses that term. This decision follows suit.

                                         14
      The Complaint’s lone count asserts that the Department’s use of OC on

prisoners without decontamination constitutes “cruel punishment” that violates

Article I, Section 11 of the Delaware Constitution. In its entirety, that section states:

“Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel

punishments inflicted; and in the construction of jails a proper regard shall be had to

the health of prisoners.”10 The plaintiffs invoke the portion of the clause prohibiting

cruel punishments.

      The plaintiffs seek only declaratory and injunctive relief, not money damages.

They request a declaration that using OC without proper decontamination after a

prisoner is compliant and the area is safe violates the Cruel Punishment Clause. They

ask for preliminary and permanent injunctions that would enjoin the Department

from using OC on prisoners until the Department implements an adequate

decontamination policy.

      The case proceeded on an expedited basis toward a hearing on the plaintiffs’

application for a preliminary injunction. A few weeks after the plaintiffs filed suit,

the Department issued DOC Policy No. 8.30B (the “Decontamination Policy”).11 The

Decontamination Policy establishes an OC decontamination policy for correction




      10 Del. Const. art. I, § 11.


      11 Dkt. 45, Ex. A. The court takes judicial notice of the Decontamination Policy.

See D.R.E. 201(d) (“The court may take judicial notice at any stage of the
proceeding.”).

                                           15
officers to follow. The plaintiffs maintain that the Decontamination Policy is

inadequate.

      On June 10, 2026, the Commissioner moved to dismiss the Complaint under

Rules 12(b)(1) and 12(b)(6). She challenged the plaintiffs’ standing to seek injunctive

relief, argued that the request for a declaratory judgment was unripe, and contended

that the Decontamination Policy rendered the lawsuit moot.12

      Because of the expedited schedule, the parties briefed the plaintiffs’ application

for a preliminary injunction simultaneously with the Commissioner’s motion to

dismiss. In opposing the plaintiffs’ application, the Commissioner argued that the

plaintiffs could not meet the standard for injunctive relief. She also renewed her non-

justiciability arguments. In addition, she contended that a private right of action does

not exist under the Cruel Punishment Clause. And she argued that even if a private

right of action existed, the Cruel Punishment Clause would not afford the plaintiffs

any rights beyond what the Eighth Amendment confers, and she relied on Eighth

Amendment jurisprudence that she says forecloses the plaintiffs’ claim.

      The court conducted a hearing on the plaintiffs’ application on June 18, 2026.

During the hearing, the Commissioner and four other witnesses testified live. The




      12 The plaintiffs filed an answering brief on June 16, 2026. Dkt. 52. Under the

Court of Chancery Rules, the Commissioner was permitted but not required to file a
reply brief. See Ct. Ch. R. 7(c)(1) (“Except as the Court orders, only the following briefs
may be filed: (A) an opening, answering, and reply brief for a motion under Rule 12 .
. . .” (emphasis added)). The Commissioner did not file a reply brief.

                                            16
parties introduced depositions, affidavits, documents, photographs, and videos into

evidence. The parties also presented argument.

         The procedural posture of the case resulted in a mixture of legal and fact-laden

issues, distributed across the parties’ various submissions. Some of the arguments

present issues of law. Some attack the Complaint. Some turn on the evidence

submitted during the preliminary injunction hearing.

         This decision addresses the threshold issues that either present questions of

law or attack the Complaint. Those issues are (1) whether the plaintiffs have standing

to seek injunctive relief, (2) whether the request for a declaratory judgment is ripe,

and (3) whether a private right of action exists under the Cruel Punishment Clause.

         The court will issue a separate decision addressing the issues that turn on post-

pleading events and the evidence submitted during the preliminary injunction stage.

Those issues include whether the Decontamination Policy rendered the action moot

and whether the plaintiffs established an entitlement to a preliminary injunction.

                 II.   STANDING TO SEEK INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

         The first issue is whether the plaintiffs have standing to seek injunctive relief.

Standing is a “threshold issue” that a court should resolve at the outset, whenever

possible, before reaching the merits.13

         “The term ‘standing’ refers to the right of a party to invoke the jurisdiction of




         13 El Paso Pipeline GP Co., L.L.C. v. Brinckerhoff, 152 A.3d 1248, 1256 (Del.

2016).

                                             17
a court to enforce a claim or to redress a grievance.”14 Standing is concerned “only

with the question of who is entitled to mount a legal challenge and not with the merits

of the subject matter of the controversy.”15 In state court, standing does not implicate

the court’s power to hear a particular claim. It asks whether a particular party can

assert it and whether the court—as a discretionary matter—should decline to

proceed.

      Standing is an aspect of justiciability.16 Courts use standing and other

justiciability doctrines to determine “whether a case is properly suited for

resolution.”17 A court can invoke a standing doctrine when it would be improvident to

address a claim that the court otherwise would have subject matter jurisdiction to

entertain.18 When ruling on a justiciability issue, a court assumes that the underlying

claim is valid and asks whether the court should nevertheless forego hearing it.19



      14 Dover Hist. Soc’y v. City of Dover Plan. Comm’n, 838 A.2d 1103, 1110 (Del.

2003) (citing Stuart Kingston, Inc. v. Robinson, 596 A.2d 1378, 1382 (Del. 1991)).

      15 Stuart Kingston, 596 A.2d at 1382.


      16 Emps. Ins. Co. of Wausau v. First State Orthopaedics, P.A., 312 A.3d 597,

607 (Del. 2024) (identifying “[t]he four aspects of justiciability” as “standing,
mootness, ripeness, and political question”).

      17 Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).


      18 See Gandhi-Kapoor v. Hone Cap. LLC, 307 A.3d 328, 341–42 (Del. Ch. 2023),

aff’d sub nom. CSC Upshot Ventures I, L.P. v. Gandhi-Kapoor, 326 A.3d 369 (Del.
2024).

      19 W. Palm Beach Firefighters’ Pens. Fund v. Moelis & Co., 310 A.3d 985, 991

(Del. Ch. 2024), rev’d on other grounds, — A.3d —, 2026 WL 184868 (Del. Jan. 20,
2026).

                                          18
A.     The Proper Procedural Rule

       The Commissioner has styled her motion to dismiss under both Rule 12(b)(1)

and Rule 12(b)(6). Rule 12(b)(1) authorizes a party to move to dismiss a claim for “lack

of subject-matter jurisdiction.”20 Rule 12(b)(6) authorizes a party to move to dismiss

a claim for “failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted.”21 For purposes

of the pleading-stage issues that this decision addresses, there is no difference

between the rules. The court must accept the Complaint’s well-pled allegations as

true, give the plaintiffs the benefit of all reasonable inferences, and consider

documents that the Complaint incorporates by reference plus information subject to

judicial notice.

B.     The Reasonable-Apprehension Test

       The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief. The Commissioner challenges their

standing to seek that form of relief. The Commissioner relies heavily on federal law,

but federal standing doctrine does not bind state courts. Under Delaware law, the

plaintiffs have standing to sue.

       Federal courts have developed an extensive body of standing jurisprudence

because Article III of the U.S. Constitution limits the scope of federal judicial power

to “Cases” and “Controversies.”22 Citing federal authority, the Commissioner argues




       20 Ct. Ch. R. 12(b)(1).


       21 Id. 12(b)(6).


       22 U.S. Const. art. III, § 2, cl. 1.


                                              19
that when a plaintiff cites incidents of past wrongs and seeks an injunction against

future incidents, the plaintiff must point to “a real and immediate threat of repeated

injury”23 and that the threatened injury is “certainly impending.”24

      This court has developed a similar but more flexible standard for determining

when a plaintiff can seek injunctive relief against a recurrence of past injury. That

inquiry is all the more necessary here than in federal court because of the nature of

this court’s jurisdiction. As a Court of Equity, this court “can acquire subject matter

jurisdiction in the first instance by three different means: (1) the invocation of an

equitable right; (2) a request for an equitable remedy when there is no adequate

remedy at law; or (3) a statutory delegation of subject matter jurisdiction.” 25 When a

party seeks to ground jurisdiction on the need for an equitable remedy,

      a judge in equity will take a practical view of the complaint, and will not
      permit a suit to be brought in Chancery where a complete legal remedy
      otherwise exists but where the plaintiff has prayed for some type of
      traditional equitable relief as a kind of formulaic ‘open sesame’ to the
      Court of Chancery.26

A court likewise takes a practical view when a plaintiff seeks to ground jurisdiction




      23 City of Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U.S. 95, 102 (1983) (internal quotation

marks omitted).

      24 Friends of Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Env’t Servs. (TOC), Inc., 528 U.S. 167, 190

(2000) (internal quotation marks omitted).

      25 Kraft v. WisdomTree Invs., Inc., 145 A.3d 969, 973 (Del. Ch. 2016) (internal

quotation marks omitted).

      26 Int’l Bus. Machs. Corp. v. Comdisco, Inc., 602 A.2d 74, 78 (Del. Ch. 1991).


                                          20
on a request for injunctive relief.

       As framed by Chancellor Allen, “for a complaint to properly state a claim

cognizable in equity solely because of a request for an injunction, the facts alleged

must, if assumed to be true, create a reasonable apprehension of a future wrong.” 27

The reasonable-apprehension test balances two competing considerations. On the one

hand, injunctions against future wrongdoing are generally unavailable.28 Instead, the

court presumes “that parties will respect any decision rendered by any competent

court of this State.”29 And that is particularly true where government action is

concerned, such that “[p]rospective injunctive relief is generally unavailable where

the plaintiff’s proposed injunction merely seeks to prospectively compel a government

to conform with the interpretation of the law reflected in the proposed declaratory

judgment.”30

       On the other hand, “[s]imple cessation of an actionably wrongful activity does

not remove this Court’s ability to grant injunctive relief. Injunctive relief is obviously




       27 McMahon v. New Castle Assocs., 532 A.2d 601, 606 (Del. Ch. 1987) (Allen,

C.).

       28 Mock v. Div. of State Police, Dep’t of Safety & Homeland Sec., 2022 WL

1744439, at *10 (Del. Ch. May 31, 2022); Preston Hollow Cap. LLC v. Nuveen LLC,
216 A.3d 1, 10–11 (Del. Ch. 2019); Organovo Hldgs., Inc. v. Dimitrov, 162 A.3d 102,
114 (Del. Ch. 2017).

       29 Young v. Red Clay Consol. Sch. Dist., 2017 WL 2271390, at *53 (Del. Ch.

May 24, 2017) (alteration and internal quotation marks omitted).

       30 Crown Castle Fiber LLC v. City of Wilm., 2021 WL 2838425, at *5 (Del. Ch.

July 8, 2021).

                                           21
prospective in nature, focusing on what the defendant is likely to do in the future.”31

“[W]here there is reason to believe that a defendant will resume his wrongful course

of conduct,” a court may issue a permanent injunction.32 A plaintiff must also

establish “a reasonable apprehension of risk of future breaches of duty of a

predictable type.”33 An unsupported, subjective concern about a future harm is

insufficient to meet this test. “This court cannot permit its jurisdiction to be invoked

simply on the basis of unsubstantiated fear that a legal duty may be breached in an

uncertain future.”34

       Delaware’s reasonable-apprehension test is more flexible than the federal

requirements of a real and immediate threat of repeated injury that is certainly

impending. “Delaware courts are not bound by the federal rules of justiciability.”35

“Unlike the federal courts . . . , state courts apply the concept of standing as a matter

of self-restraint to avoid the rendering of advisory opinions at the behest of parties




       31 Weiner v. Miller, 1990 WL 54915, at *1 (Del. Ch. Apr. 27, 1990).


       32 Id.


       33 Thorpe v. CERBCO, Inc., 1996 WL 560173, at *4 (Del. Ch. Sept. 13, 1996)

(Allen, C.).

       34 State v. Pettinaro Enters., 870 A.2d 513, 536 (Del. Ch. 2005).


       35 Albence v. Higgin, 295 A.3d 1065, 1086 (Del. 2022) (citing ASARCO Inc. v.

Kadish, 490 U.S. 605, 617 (1989) (“We have recognized often that the constraints of
Article III do not apply to state courts, and accordingly the state courts are not bound
by the limitations of a case or controversy or other federal rules of justiciability[.]”)).

                                            22
who are ‘mere intermeddlers.’”36

      That said, Delaware courts often look to federal precedent as persuasive

authority on standing issues,37 and the Delaware Supreme Court has noted that the

standards for evaluating standing under federal law “are generally the same as the

standards for determining standing to bring a case or controversy within the courts

of Delaware.”38 But “[b]ased on the structure of our cooperative federal system, state

court standing doctrine is appropriately more flexible than federal standing doctrine,

because the state courts play a different and more expansive role than the federal

courts.”39 “[T]he authority of our [state] courts is derived from the plenary and




      36 Dover Hist. Soc’y, 838 A.2d at 1111 (quoting Stuart Kingston, 596 A.2d at

1382); accord Gandhi-Kapoor, 307 A.3d at 341. See generally Reeder v. Wagner, 974
A.2d 858, 2009 WL 1525945, at *2 (Del. June 2, 2009) (TABLE) (affirming dismissal
for lack of taxpayer standing in action seeking “declaratory relief aris[ing] from
[plaintiffs’] rights, as taxpayers, to challenge the allegedly illegal disbursement of
State funds” because “plaintiffs were not seeking to enjoin the misuse of public money
or lands [and] [i]nstead, they were seeking an advisory opinion from the Superior
Court reflecting their interpretation of certain statutes and to compel Auditor
Wagner to perform his discretionary audit functions in a particular way” (emphasis
omitted)).

      37 Emps.     Ins., 312 A.3d at 608 (“We generally follow Article III’s standing
requirements.”).

      38 Dover Hist. Soc’y, 838 A.2d at 1111.


      39 In re Del. Pub. Schs. Litig., 239 A.3d 451, 510 (Del. Ch. 2020) (citing John

DiManno, Beyond Taxpayers’ Suits: Public Interest Standing in the States, 41 Conn.
L. Rev. 639, 658–63 (2008) (collecting authorities)).

                                          23
unenumerated powers of state sovereignty.”40 “‘State courts need not become

enmeshed in the federal complexities and technicalities involving standing and are

free to reject procedural frustrations in favor of just and expeditious determination

on the ultimate merits.’”41 In short, “[s]tanding doctrine in the state courts is

predominantly discretionary and prudential,”42 and “Delaware’s courts may hear

cases and controversies that the federal courts cannot.”43

C.    Applying The Reasonable-Apprehension Test

      The Complaint pleads facts supporting an inference that the plaintiffs have a

reasonable apprehension of future harm. The Complaint’s allegations sufficiently

allege that correction officers will use OC weapons on the plaintiffs and similarly

situated prisoners without adequate decontamination. The Complaint’s supporting

allegations are specific, detailed, and lengthy:

•     Every Department correction officer carries an MK-2 aerosol canister as part
      of their standard gear.

•     Department correction officers have other OC weapons at their disposal,
      including OC area foggers, pepper-ball guns, 40-millimeter OC rounds, and OC
      grenades.




      40 Higgin, 295 A.3d at 1086–87 (citing Murphy v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Ass’n,

584 U.S. 453, 469–72 (2018)).

      41 Helen Hershkoff, State Courts and the “Passive Virtues”: Rethinking the

Judicial Function, 114 Harv. L. Rev. 1833, 1857 (2001) (quoting State v. Sheward,
715 N.E.2d 1062, 1081–82 (Ohio 1999) (quoting 59 Am. Jur. 2d Parties § 30 (1987))).

      42 Del. Pub. Schs., 239 A.3d at 510.


      43 Higgin, 295 A.3d at 1086–87.


                                           24
•     Department correction officers commonly use OC spray to secure compliance
      and maintain safety and security at Delaware prisons.

•     Department correction officers are involved in approximately 550 use-of-force
      incidents each year, or approximately two per day.

•     The vast majority of use-of-force incidents involve OC weapons, meaning
      Department correction officers use OC weapons on prisoners hundreds of times
      each year.

•     In addition to direct exposure, prisoners are often contaminated through
      indirect exposure as bystanders.

•     None of the eight plaintiffs or five non-plaintiff affiants were decontaminated.

•     None of the plaintiffs in the Davis, Flores, and Cropper cases were
      decontaminated.

•     Several of the plaintiffs and other affiants were sprayed on more than one
      occasion.

•     Many plaintiffs in the Davis and Flores cases were sprayed on more than one
      occasion.

•     All but two of the plaintiffs filed grievances that resulted in no action being
      taken.

•     When the Complaint was filed, the Department did not have a written policy
      addressing decontamination.

•     The lack of decontamination occurred despite correction officer candidates
      receiving training on the importance of decontamination.

•     The lack of decontamination occurred despite OC product labels calling for
      decontamination.

•     Several of the plaintiffs and other affiants have health conditions that make a
      lack of decontamination particularly risky.

Based on these allegations, the plaintiffs have a reasonable apprehension that they

will be sprayed with OC in the future and not permitted to decontaminate.

      1.    Math

      The Commissioner responds that the plaintiffs’ fear of future harm relies on a
                                         25
speculative chain of improbable events. Inspired by federal precedent, she crunches

numbers to argue that it is improbable that the named plaintiffs will be exposed to

OC without decontamination again. She reasons as follows:

•     The Department cares for around 4,500 prisoners.

•     There are around 550 incidents involving OC weapons each year.

•     Only around 12% of prisoners are exposed to OC each year.

•     On average, a typical prisoner should be exposed only once every eight years.

•     At 550 exposures per year, there were likely around 3,000 exposures since
      2020, yet the plaintiffs have presented only twenty-three instances of deficient
      decontamination.

•     The absence of more complaints about decontamination suggests that more
      than 99% of Delaware prisoners “were decontaminated to their satisfaction.”44

•     A typical prisoner is therefore highly unlikely to encounter deficient
      decontamination.

The math is clever, but unpersuasive.

      First, the fact that the Complaint describes twenty-three incidents does not

mean that more did not occur. That means that those are the prisoners who have

come forward and been willing to participate in this lawsuit. Inferring that no other

prisoners have suffered deficient decontamination would necessitate drawing a

defense-friendly inference.

      Second, the plaintiffs seek to sue on behalf of a putative class comprising all

individuals incarcerated in Delaware. “The class-action device was designed as an




      44 Dkt. 45 at 35.


                                         26
exception to the usual rule that litigation is conducted by and on behalf of the

individual named parties only.”45 Its purpose is to enable a court “to hear an action

by or against representatives of a group if plaintiff could establish that the number

of people involved was so large as to make joinder impossible or impracticable, that

all the members of the group possessed a joint interest in the question to be

adjudicated, and that the named parties adequately represented those absent from

the action.”46 When “members of the class have repeatedly suffered personal injuries

in the past that can fairly be traced to the [defendant’s] standard practices, the

defendant’s treatment of the class as a whole must be considered.”47 Here, the twenty-

three incidents provide specific examples to support the Complaint’s broader

allegations about a practice of deficient decontamination that affects the class as a

whole. The Complaint expressly alleges that those incidents are “examples [that] are

not outliers” and that “illustrat[e] [the Department’s] widespread practice.”48




      45 Gen. Tel. Co. of Sw. v. Falcon, 457 U.S. 147, 155 (1982) (internal quotation

marks omitted).

      46 7A Charles Alan Wright, Arthur R. Miller & Mary Kay Kane, Federal
Practice and Procedure § 1751 (4th ed.), Westlaw (database updated Apr. 2026).

      47 Armstrong v. Davis, 275 F.3d 849, 864 (9th Cir. 2001) (alteration in original)

(internal quotation marks omitted), overruled on other grounds by Johnson v.
California, 543 U.S. 499 (2005); see generally Gen. Tel. Co. of Sw., 457 U.S. at 156
(“We have repeatedly held that a class representative must be part of the class and
possess the same interest and suffer the same injury as the class members.” (internal
quotation marks omitted)).

      48 Compl. ¶ 222 (“The incidents involving the named Plaintiffs are just eight

examples detailing how Delaware correctional officials deploy OC against prisoners

                                          27
      Third, relying on calculations of this sort to predict whether a plaintiff faces a

threat of future harm tilts the scales against judicial intervention to address allegedly

unconstitutional but uncommon acts. The Commissioner relies on Flores, which was

“informed by the Supreme Court’s decision in Lyons.”49 In Lyons, the plaintiff claimed

police officers used a chokehold on him during a police traffic stop that rendered him

unconscious, violating his constitutional rights under the First, Fourth, Eighth, and

Fourteenth Amendments. He sought to enjoin the Los Angeles police’s future use of

chokeholds. The Supreme Court of the United States reasoned that “to establish an

actual controversy in this case, Lyons would have had not only to allege that he would

have another encounter with the police but also to make the incredible assertion

either, (1) that all police officers in Los Angeles always choke any citizen with whom

they happen to have an encounter, whether for the purpose of arrest, issuing a

citation or for questioning or, (2) that the City ordered or authorized police officers to

act in such manner.”50 The Court thought that “the odds” that Lyons would be stopped




without subsequently decontaminating them—in violation of [Department] policy
and training requirements. The Plaintiffs’ examples are not outliers. As discussed
below, recent excessive force lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the District
of Delaware have revealed further examples illustrating [the Department]’s
widespread practice.”).

      49 Flores v. Emig, 2025 WL 2432089, at *3 (D. Del. Aug. 22, 2025) (citing Lyons,

461 U.S. 95), aff’d, 2026 WL 1747001 (3d Cir. June 17, 2026).

      50 Lyons, 461 U.S. at 105–06 (emphasis in original).


                                           28
and subjected to a chokehold without provocation were insufficient to confer federal

standing for equitable relief.51

       In dissent, Justice Marshall lamented that the majority’s decision “immunizes

from prospective equitable relief any policy that authorizes persistent deprivations of

constitutional rights as long as no individual can establish with substantial certainty

that he will be injured, or injured again, in the future.”52 Justice Marshall questioned

the majority’s probabilistic reasoning by noting that, “[u]nder the view expressed by

the majority today, if the police adopt . . . a policy of shooting one out of ten suspects,

the federal courts will be powerless to enjoin its continuation.”53 Justice Marshall’s

“one-in-ten” hypothetical illustrates how calculations of this sort can prevent a court

from addressing significant but uncommon harms.

       Using probabilistic calculations also suffers from a deeper flaw: It flouts the

principle that constitutional rights protect the minority from the tyranny of the




       51 Id. at 108 (quoting Lyons v. City of Los Angeles, 615 F.2d 1243, 1246–47 (9th

Cir. 1980) (“Certainly the odds of having that sort of encounter are much greater than
the odds of having the sort of encounters described in O’Shea or in Rizzo, and
therefore meet the constitutional requirements of ‘case’ or ‘controversy.’”)); see id.
(“[I]t is untenable to assert . . . that strangleholds are applied by the Los Angeles
police to every citizen who is stopped or arrested regardless of the conduct of the
person stopped.”); id. (“[I]t is no more than conjecture to suggest that in every
instance of a traffic stop, arrest, or other encounter between the police and a citizen,
the police will act unconstitutionally and inflict injury without provocation or legal
excuse.”).

       52 Id. at 137 (Marshall, J., dissenting).


       53 Id. (Marshall, J., dissenting).


                                            29
majority. In the Federalist Papers, Madison warned about the danger of a majority

faction advancing its agenda at the expense of the minority’s rights.54 He stressed

that “[i]t is of great importance in a republic not only to guard the society against the

oppression of its rulers, but to guard one part of the society against the injustice of

the other part. Different interests necessarily exist in different classes of citizens. If

a majority be united by a common interest, the rights of the minority will be

insecure.”55

      Mathematical discounting like the Commissioner’s calculations uses the

minority’s smaller size to reduce their access to justice. As the size of the minority

decreases and the need for constitutional protection increases, the discounting model

makes it all the less likely that a minority can seek relief. The Commissioner’s

probabilistic calculations run contrary to the purpose of counter-majoritarian

constitutional rights. They do not defeat an inference that the plaintiffs have a

reasonable apprehension of future harm.




      54 The Federalist No. 10 (James Madison) (“Complaints are everywhere heard

. . . that measures are too often decided, not according to the rules of justice and the
rights of the minor party, but by the superior force of an interested and overbearing
majority.”); id. (“When a majority is included in a faction, the form of popular
government . . . enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both the public
good and the rights of other citizens.”). See also Robert M. Cover, The Origins of
Judicial Activism in the Protection of Minorities, 91 Yale L.J. 1287, 1297 (1982) (“[A]
discrete and insular minority cannot expect majoritarian politics to protect its
members as it protects others.”).

      55 The Federalist No. 51 (James Madison).


                                           30
      2.     The Decontamination Policy

      Next, the Commissioner argues that the Decontamination Policy minimizes or

eliminates the likelihood of future deficient decontamination. That is a mootness

argument, and it depends on the facts developed during the evidentiary hearing held

in conjunction with the plaintiffs’ application for a preliminary injunction. The court

will address it in that context.

      When considering the type of pleading-stage motion that the Commissioner

initially made, courts evaluate standing at the time the complaint was filed.56 When

the Complaint was filed, the Department did not have a written decontamination

policy. Correction officers used their discretion.

      3.     Flores

      Continuing her reliance on federal standing doctrine, the Commissioner cites

Flores, where the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (the

“Delaware District Court”) held that Delaware prisoners lacked standing to seek

injunctive relief against future harm. There, six prisoners alleged that, on September

5, 2024, the Department’s correctional emergency response team “began a shakedown

of the Plaintiffs’ cells . . . [where they] pepper-sprayed, punched, beat, kicked, sexually




      56 Schoon v. Smith, 953 A.2d 196, 200 (Del. 2008) (“Standing is the requisite

interest that must exist in the outcome of the litigation at the time the action is
commenced.” (quoting Gen. Motors Corp. v. New Castle Cty., 701 A.2d 819, 823 (Del.
1997))).

                                            31
assaulted, degraded, and humiliated Plaintiffs.”57 The plaintiffs argued that the

correction officers used excessive force in violation of the Eighth and Fourteenth

Amendments, and they asked the Delaware District Court to enjoin the Department

from (i) deploying the emergency team without first providing a written statement

explaining the nature of the emergency, (ii) using pepper grenades in any individual

cell, (iii) using pepper spray against prisoners when closer than three feet away, (iv)

leaving sprayed individuals in locked cells or rooms without allowing them to

decontaminate, and (v) deploying the emergency team in any arbitrary, unprovoked,

or punitive manner.58

      The defendants argued that the Flores complaint contained only conclusory

allegations that could not support any constitutional violations.59 The Delaware

District Court dismissed eleven defendants based on the complaint’s failure to allege

that they were personally involved in the incident, but otherwise denied the motions

to dismiss.60 Two months later, the Delaware District Court denied the plaintiffs’

motion for a preliminary injunction, holding that the plaintiffs lacked Article III

standing to seek injunctive relief because they had not “made a clear showing that




      57 Flores, 2025 WL 2432089, at *1.


      58 Id. at *1–2.


      59 Flores v. Emig, 2025 WL 1638366, at *3–4 (D. Del. June 9, 2025).


      60 Id. at *3.


                                           32
they are likely to suffer a future injury.”61 Although the plaintiffs alleged that future

shakedowns were likely, the Delaware District Court rejected that allegation as

insufficient under the federal test.62 The Delaware District Court also held that even

if a shakedown occurred, it was not sufficiently likely that the allegedly

unconstitutional conduct would occur again.63 The United States Court of Appeals for

the Third Circuit affirmed, holding that the complaint’s allegations were not

sufficient to show that future harm was “‘certainly impending, or there [was] a

substantial risk that the harm will occur,’” quoting its standard for standing involving

prospective relief.64

       Flores does not warrant dismissal of this case. First, the Commissioner seeks

dismissal on the pleadings, the same motion that the Delaware District Court

denied.65 Second, at the preliminary injunction stage, the Delaware District Court




       61 Flores, 2025 WL 2432089, at *3.


       62 Id. at *4.


       63 Id. at *5.


       64 Flores v. Emig, 2026 WL 1747001, at *1 (3d Cir. June 17, 2026) (alteration

and emphasis in original) (quoting Rd.-Con, Inc. v. City of Phila., 120 F.4th 346, 355
(3d Cir. 2024)).

       65 That denial applied the federal “plausibility” pleading standard, which is

higher than Delaware’s “reasonable conceivability” standard. See Cent. Mortg. Co. v.
Morgan Stanley Mortg. Cap. Hldgs. LLC, 27 A.3d 531, 537 n.13 (Del. 2011) (“Our
governing ‘conceivability’ standard is more akin to ‘possibility,’ while the federal
‘plausibility’ standard falls somewhere beyond mere ‘possibility’ but short of
‘probability.’”). The Delaware District Court’s denial of a motion to dismiss under the

                                            33
applied the higher federal standard, not Delaware’s reasonable-apprehension test.

Third, the Complaint here rests on specific, detailed, and lengthy allegations about

multiple incidents, not a single incident.

      In any event, the plaintiffs adequately plead that they have suffered repeated,

prolonged exposure to OC without decontamination, resulting in extreme and

persistent pain and long-term health impairments. Based on their alleged past

injuries, the Complaint’s broader allegations about the Department’s failure to

decontaminate Delaware prisoners, and their fear of future injury from the

Department’s failure to decontaminate, the plaintiffs have standing to sue.

      4.     Federal Cases On OC Exposure

      Finally, the Commissioner asserts that under the Eighth Amendment,

“numerous federal courts have noted that most inmate complaints of deficient

decontamination do not rise to the level of a constitutionally recognized injury.”66

According to the Commissioner, that means that even if the plaintiffs were exposed

to OC and not allowed to decontaminate, they would lack standing for want of a

constitutionally sufficient injury.67

      In reality, federal decisions are split on this issue. A series of decisions have




higher standard makes it all the more appropriate to deny the current motion to
dismiss under Delaware’s lower standard.

      66 Dkt. 45 at 28.


      67 Id. at 28–29.


                                             34
held that a failure to decontaminate can give rise to a claim under the Eighth

Amendment.68 Often those decisions involve claims for money damages, so federal




      68   See, e.g., Walker v. Bowersox, 526 F.3d 1186, 1189–90 (8th Cir. 2008)
(reversing grant of summary judgment to defendant on an Eighth Amendment
excessive force claim where the plaintiff “was not allowed to shower or have clean
clothes or bedding for three days and could only wash in his cell sink, he suffered red,
peeling, and itchy skin for a long time, and had to use hydrocortisone cream for
months”); Norton v. City of Marietta, 432 F.3d 1145, 1154 (10th Cir. 2005) (reversing
grant of summary judgment to defendants on an Eighth Amendment excessive force
claim where whether OC use was unconstitutional “turns in part on how long plaintiff
was sprayed and whether he was adequately irrigated afterwards or left to suffer
unnecessarily”); Clement v. Gomez, 298 F.3d 898, 901–05 (9th Cir. 2002) (affirming
denial of defendants’ motion for summary judgment on Eighth Amendment
deliberate indifference claim where officials “may have been deliberately indifferent
to the prisoners’ serious medical needs if, in fact, they were aware of the harmful
effects of the pepper spray and of the inadequacy of their ventilation methods and yet
purposefully refused to provide showers, medical care, or combative instructions or
to develop an adequate policy to address obvious risks”); Foulk v. Charrier, 262 F.3d
687, 692, 701–02 (8th Cir. 2001) (“Foulk testified that, because he received no medical
care and had no ability to wash off the pepper spray, he continued to feel its painful
effects for several days. . . . [A] reasonable jury could have concluded that [the officer]
acted maliciously, sadistically, and with the intent to cause injury . . . . [A] malicious
and sadistic use of force by a prison official against a prisoner, done with the intent
to injure and causing actual injury, is enough to establish a violation of the Eighth
Amendment’s cruel and unusual punishment clause.”); Bomar v. Wetzel, 2020 WL
907641, at *5 (W.D. Pa. Feb. 3, 2020) (“While Plaintiff has not alleged that he suffered
any lasting or continuing problems as a result of the OC spray, courts have held that
the failure to decontaminate prisoners or otherwise provide medical treatment for
prisoners exposed to pepper spray can support a claim for a violation of the Eighth
Amendment where the failure to treat a prisoner’s condition could result in further
significant injury or the unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain.” (internal
quotation marks omitted)), report and recommendation adopted, 2020 WL 906720
(W.D. Pa. Feb. 25, 2020); Murray v. Lilly, 426 F. Supp. 3d 245, 254 (S.D. W. Va. 2019)
(“[D]epriving a prisoner of a proper opportunity to fully decontaminate, including
forcing them to remain in their contaminated clothes, demonstrates maliciousness
and qualifies as excessive force.”); Wagner v. Warden, 2016 WL 7178297, at *9–10 (D.
Md. Dec. 8, 2016) (“Wagner claims he was denied the opportunity to wash off the
pepper spray by way of a shower or at a sink. If the pepper spray were allowed to
persist after the need for it had expired, then there would be a colorable Eighth

                                            35
immunity doctrines play a major role in the outcome. At present, it is simply not

accurate to describe federal cases as holding that OC exposure without

decontamination cannot give rise to a constitutional injury under the Eighth

Amendment. Cases interpreting the Eighth Amendment do not provide a basis to

dismiss this action on the pleadings for lack of standing.

          III.   THE RIPENESS OF A DECLARATORY JUDGMENT

      Having attempted to defeat the plaintiffs’ request for injunctive relief with

standing, the Commissioner invokes a different justiciability argument to defeat the

plaintiffs’ request for a declaratory judgment. This time, the Commissioner argues

ripeness. That effort does not succeed either.

      The Delaware Declaratory Judgment Act grants Delaware courts the power to

issue declaratory judgments.69 Delaware courts can “declare rights, status and other




Amendment claim for infliction of harm to plaintiff without adequate justification. . .
. Courts have also concluded that the Eighth Amendment can be violated when, after
a prisoner is subjected to pepper spray, even for a legitimate reason, officers then
withhold appropriate medical attention.”); Thomas v. McNeil, 2009 WL 64616, at *23
(M.D. Fla. Jan. 9, 2009) (“[E]ven where chemical agents are permissibly used, when
the effects are longer lasting or exacerbated by prolonged exposure, inadequate
decontamination, or poor ventilation—something beyond the immediate short term
effects of being sprayed with the chemical agent—the use of chemical agents may
pose an unreasonable risk to an inmate’s health that is serious enough to trigger
inquiry under the Eighth Amendment.”), aff’d sub nom. Thomas v. Bryant, 614 F.3d
1288 (11th Cir. 2010).

      69 10 Del. C. §§ 6501–6513. See also Gannett Co., Inc. v. Bd. of Managers of the

Del. Crim. Just. Info. Sys., 840 A.2d 1232, 1237 (Del. 2003) (explaining that to issue
a declaratory judgment, there must be an “actual controversy” meeting the following
prerequisites: “(1) It must be a controversy involving the rights or other legal
relations of the party seeking declaratory relief; (2) it must be a controversy in which

                                          36
legal relations whether or not further relief is or could be claimed.”70 The Declaratory

Judgment Act’s stated purpose is “‘to afford relief from uncertainty and insecurity

with respect to [a party’s] rights.’”71

       A Delaware court should only issue a declaratory judgment when the dispute

is sufficiently concrete and mature.72 “The grant of declaratory judgment is always

discretionary; and before a court should declare the rights of parties in a dispute, it

must not only be convinced that litigation sooner or later appears to be unavoidable,

but also that the material facts are static and that the rights of the parties are

presently defined rather than future or contingent.”73 “The underlying purpose of that

principle is to conserve limited judicial resources and to avoid rendering a legally

binding decision that could result in premature and possibly unsound lawmaking.”74

       At bottom, evaluating ripeness calls for “a common sense assessment of

whether the interests of the party seeking immediate relief outweigh the concerns of



the claim of right or other legal interest is asserted against one who has an interest
in contesting the claim; (3) the controversy must be between parties whose interests
are real and adverse; [and] (4) the issue involved in the controversy must be ripe for
judicial determination.” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

       70 10 Del. C. § 6501.


       71 Brooks v. Lynch, 2016 WL 5957674, at *2 (Del. 2016) (alteration in original)

(quoting 10 Del. C. § 6512).

       72 XL Specialty Ins. Co. v. WMI Liquid. Tr., 93 A.3d 1208, 1216–17 (Del. 2014).


       73 Stroud v. Milliken Enters., Inc., 552 A.2d 476, 481 (Del. 1989) (internal

quotation marks omitted).

       74 XL Specialty, 93 A.3d at 1217.


                                           37
the court ‘in postponing review until the question arises in some more concrete and

final form.’”75 “In determining whether an action is ripe for judicial determination, a

practical judgment is required.”76

      The plaintiffs’ declaratory judgment claim is ripe. They seek a ruling that

failing to allow prisoners to decontaminate after they are compliant and the area is

safe violates the Cruel Punishment Clause. At the pleading stage, the plaintiffs have

sufficiently alleged that deficient decontamination under those circumstances has

happened and continues to happen. They contend that they have filed grievances that

have not resulted in any action.

      The declaration the plaintiffs seek presents a precise issue, capable of

resolution. The plaintiffs are not challenging the initial use of OC, which is a

discretion-laden decision that depends on the facts. The plaintiffs are not asking the

court to rule on what it means for a prisoner to be compliant or for the area to be safe,

questions that also require judgment and factual analysis. The plaintiffs are only

asking the court to address a narrow issue: After a prisoner is compliant and the area

is safe, does a lack of decontamination violate the Cruel Punishment Clause?

      The Commissioner argues that the plaintiffs have not linked their request for

declaratory relief to any specific actor, but they have. The Complaint contends that

the Department lacks an adequate decontamination policy. When the Complaint was




      75 Id. (quoting Stroud, 552 A.2d at 480).


      76 Stroud, 552 A.2d at 480 (internal quotation marks omitted).


                                           38
filed, the Department admittedly lacked any written decontamination policy, and the

Commissioner left decontamination to the discretion of correction officers, without

guidance. The Department, the Commissioner, and the correction officers are the

actors. The Commissioner embodies the Department in her official capacity.

      The Commissioner quibbles with the precise wording of the Complaint’s prayer

for relief, but what the plaintiffs seek is clear. They want a ruling on whether a lack

of decontamination, after a prisoner is compliant and the area is safe, violates the

Cruel Punishment Clause. If the plaintiffs fail, then the Commissioner and the

Department will have certainty on that legal issue. If the plaintiffs prevail, then the

principle will be established, and the Commissioner and the Department again will

have certainty.

      The Commissioner points out that federal courts have consistently refused to

declare that every failure to decontaminate prisoners within a particular time frame

or in a particular manner constitutes cruel and unusual punishment under the

federal Eighth Amendment. That is a merits argument, not a ripeness issue. It also

recasts what the plaintiffs are requesting. They do not want a fixed set of rules

imposing particular time frames and procedural requirements. They want to use the

facts of their cases to establish a principle. If they prevail, then judgment will be

required when applying that principle to future situations. If there are as-applied

challenges in the future that invoke the principle, then courts will approach those

cases with appropriate deference to the correction officers and other Department

personnel who must make difficult decisions in real time and under uncertain

                                          39
conditions.

      The Commissioner further complains that the plaintiffs have not specified

whether they want a declaration about past, present, or future conduct. Once again,

the plaintiffs seek a declaratory judgment, based on the specific factual circumstances

that they have experienced, that establishes a legal principle. The resulting judgment

would do two things. It would declare the rights of the parties in this case and

establish a legal principle going forward.

      A declaratory judgment would not mean that a plaintiff could turn around and

use it to seek money damages. Many hurdles would remain. First, a plaintiff would

have to establish that a violation of the Cruel Punishment Clause can support a claim

for money damages. As discussed below, this case does not reach that issue because

the plaintiffs are only seeking injunctive and declaratory relief. Second, the plaintiff

would have to navigate immunity defenses under the Delaware Tort Claims Act.77

Third, any defendants might well argue for other immunities or raise other defenses

to liability, and the plaintiff would have to overcome those as well.

      Last, the Commissioner observes that declaratory relief is available only

“where no other remedy exists.”78 She claims that the plaintiffs’ past injuries can be

remedied by money damages, rendering declaratory relief unwarranted. To the

contrary, no court has held that money damages are available for a violation of the




      77 See 10 Del. C. § 4001.


      78 Brooks, 2016 WL 5957674, at *2.


                                             40
Cruel Punishment Clause. Absent such a holding, the Delaware Tort Claims Act bars

their recovery. And even if a court crossed that bridge, the Delaware Tort Claims Act

remains a powerful defense, as do other potential bases for immunity that a

defendant could invoke. That is precisely why the plaintiffs seek injunctive and

declaratory relief.

      The plaintiffs’ request for declaratory relief is ripe.

                      IV.   A PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION

      In her most sweeping argument, the Commissioner contends that there is no

private right of action to enforce the Cruel Punishment Clause, depriving the

plaintiffs and everyone else of their ability to enforce that constitutional guarantee.

Whether a private right of action exists to enforce the Cruel Punishment Clause

presents a difficult issue. First, the Delaware Supreme Court has never established

a test for determining whether to recognize a private right of action under a

constitutional provision. Second, there is considerable uncertainty about how the

Delaware Supreme Court would weigh the factors in any test and what conclusion it

would reach. Third, there is a line of existing cases that have held, after abbreviated

analysis, that the Cruel Punishment Clause does not support a private right of action

for money damages. The Commissioner has tried to cite those authorities as

supporting the broader assertion that no private right of action exists to enforce the

Cruel Punishment Clause at all.

      This decision surveys the tests that have been used to determine whether to

recognize a private right of action to enforce a constitutional provision. This decision


                                           41
concludes that under the principles those tests articulate, a private right of action to

enforce the Cruel Punishment Clause exists. That conclusion is sufficient to enable

the plaintiffs to pursue their requests for injunctive and declaratory relief. This

decision does not reach the more difficult question of whether the Cruel Punishment

Clause supports a private right of action for money damages.

A.    Tests For Recognizing A Private Right Of Action

      As demonstrated in the next section, many parties have brought suit to enforce

provisions in the Delaware Constitution. The Delaware Supreme Court has ruled in

those cases without questioning whether a private right of action existed.79 Because

the justices have not confronted the issue, they have never established a test for

determining when a private right arises. Other authorities, however, suggest tests.

      1.     Delaware Trial-Level Authority

      Without guidance from the Delaware Supreme Court, the next place to turn is

trial-court authorities. Only three Delaware state court decisions squarely address

the existence of private rights of action under the Delaware Constitution. None

establish a test, but it is possible to reverse-engineer the test they implicitly applied.




      79 The one time the question of a private right of action was presented on

appeal, it had not been raised below and was deemed waived. In re COVID-Related
Restrictions on Religious Servs., 326 A.3d 626, 645 n.144 (Del. 2024) (“On appeal,
Appellee argued for the first time that Plaintiffs do not have a private right of action
for claims arising under the Delaware Constitution. We reject this argument without
reaching its merits because it was not raised below. The argument is precluded by
Rule 8 of this Court, which provides that arguments not fairly presented to the trial
court will not be considered by this Court.” (citation omitted)).

                                           42
       The first decision—Schueller—addressed a plaintiff’s effort to sue a state

trooper for money damages for allegedly violating Article I, Section 6 of the Delaware

Constitution.80 In a brief order, the court declined to recognize a private right of action

for damages under that provision.81 Schueller gave the following four reasons:

       (i) Mr. Schueller has alternative remedies available to him through a
       common law tort action for battery or gross negligence, both of which
       allow Mr. Schueller the opportunity to recover damages for the unlawful
       or excessive use of force, and Mr. Schueller has brought these common
       law tort claims against Defendants,

       (ii) unlike Bivens, there is no state statute similar to section 1983 of the
       Civil Rights Act that already exists to define the scope of this new cause
       of action and its limits,

       (iii) creating a new cause of action under Article I, Section 6, which does
       not mention excessive force or the requirements for bringing such a
       cause of action, could impose huge financial burdens on municipal, local,
       and state government entities by opening them up to lawsuits for
       damages which lack defined boundaries, and

       (iv) the Court believes the Delaware State Legislature is the entity best
       suited to create a new cause of action in this instance.82




       80 See Del. Const. art. 1, § 6 (“The people shall be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and possessions, from unreasonable searches and seizures; and no
warrant to search any place, or to seize any person or thing, shall issue without
describing them as particularly as may be; nor then, unless there be probable cause
supported by oath or affirmation.”).

       81 Schueller v. Cordrey, 2017 WL 568344, at *1 (Del. Super. Feb. 13, 2017)

(“[T]he Court will not extend Bivens liability to create a new cause of action for
damages under Article I, Section 6 of the Delaware Constitution.”); id. at *2 (“[T]he
facts of this case do not warrant creating a new cause of action for excessive force
under Article I, Section 6 of the Delaware Constitution . . . .”).

       82 Id. at *2 (formatting altered).


                                            43
Those are reasons that might address parts of a test. They do not establish a test.

       The second decision—Amoako—followed Schueller in holding that no private

right of action existed to recover damages under Article I, Section 6.83 Amoako did

not go beyond Schueller.

       The third decision—Rodriguez—addressed whether a plaintiff could sue for

damages under Article I, Section 784 and the Cruel Punishment Clause.85 Rodriguez

relied on Schueller and held that its reasoning “applies equally to the constitutional

violations alleged . . . in this case.”86

       None of the Delaware state court decisions established a test for determining

whether a private right of action exists. In a footnote, Schueller cited as “highly

persuasive” the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court’s decision in Jones, which




       83 Amoako v. Clayton Police Dep’t, 2024 WL 3596419, at *4 (Del. Super. July

31, 2024).

       84 Del. Const. art. I, § 7 (“In all criminal prosecutions, the accused has a right

to be heard personally and by counsel, to be plainly and fully informed of the nature
and cause of the accusation against the accused, to meet the witnesses in their
examination face to face, to have compulsory process in due time, on application by
the accused, the accused’s friends or counsel, for obtaining witnesses in the accused’s
favor, and a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury; the accused shall not be
compelled to give evidence against the accused’s own self, nor shall the accused be
deprived of life, liberty, or property, unless by the judgment of the accused’s peers or
by the law of the land.”).

       85 Rodriguez v. Cahall, 2023 WL 569358 (Del. Super. Jan. 27, 2023).


       86 Id. at *6.


                                            44
rejected a similar implied cause of action under that state’s constitution.87 Jones did

not identify a test either. That decision elided the question of whether a private right

of action exists with the question of whether a clause in the Pennsylvania

Constitution had a different meaning than a similar clause in the U.S. Constitution.

The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania had instructed courts evaluating the latter issue

to consider (1) the text of the Pennsylvania Constitution, (2) the history of the

provision, including Pennsylvania case law, (3) related case law from other states,

and (4) “policy considerations, including unique issues of state and local concern, and

applicability within modern Pennsylvania jurisprudence.” 88 Jones worked through

those factors.

      Although none of the four decisions established a test, it is possible to reverse

engineer a test that would generate the answers that the decisions reached. The first

reason Schueller offered appears responsive to the question, “Does the plaintiff

already have an adequate remedy?” Schueller reasoned that the plaintiff had an

adequate remedy through a common law tort action for battery or gross negligence,

mitigating or eliminating the need to recognize a private right of action.

      The second reason Schueller offered appears to address the question, “Does an

existing state statute define the contours of the remedy?” That factor addresses the




      87 Id. at *2 n.4 (citing Jones v. City of Phila., 890 A.2d 1188 (Pa. Commw. Ct.

2006)).

      88 Jones, 890 A.2d at 1194 (citing Commonwealth v. Edmunds, 586 A.2d 887,

895 (Pa. 1991)).

                                          45
policy question, “Can the courts readily administer the private right of action, or will

there be a host of uncertainties to address?” Schueller found no existing statute that

would provide guidance. Relatedly, Schueller noted in its third reason that any

private right of action under Article I, Section 6 would “lack defined boundaries.” The

implied inquiry might thus be framed as asking, “Does the constitutional provision,

an existing state statute, or established common law doctrine sufficiently define the

contours of a private right of action so as to make it reasonably administrable?”

      The third reason Schueller offered appears responsive to two questions. One is

“Does the language of the constitutional provision support a private right of action?”

The other is “Are there policy reasons that would counsel against recognizing a

private right of action?” Schueller found nothing in the text of Article I, Section 6 that

would support a cause of action for the use of excessive force. Schueller expressed

concern that recognizing a cause of action could impose financial burdens on

municipal, local, and state government entities.

      The last reason Schueller offered appears responsive to the question, “Is the

judiciary constitutionally empowered and equipped to recognize a private right of

action?” Citing separation of powers concerns, Schueller deferred to the General

Assembly.

      The reverse-engineering produces five questions that could form part of a test:

•     Does the language of the constitutional provision support a private right of
      action?

•     Does the constitutional provision, an existing state statute, or established
      common law doctrine sufficiently define the contours of a private right of action
      so as to make it reasonably administrable?
                                           46
•        Is there a need for a private right of action, or does the plaintiff already have
         adequate remedies?

•        Are there policy reasons that would counsel against recognizing a private right
         of action?

•        Is the judiciary constitutionally empowered and equipped to recognize a
         private right of action?

As a convenient shorthand, this decision calls this inquiry the “Implicit Delaware

Test.”

         Notably, the cases implicitly asked those questions when considering whether

to recognize a private right of action for money damages. Those implied questions

closely track the types of inquiries that other authorities propose for purposes of that

inquiry.

         2.    The Self-Executing Approach

         A different approach to private rights of action starts from the premise that

constitutional provisions are presumptively self-executing.89 That approach takes the

view that state constitutions are themselves binding law that the judicial branch can

enforce on their own terms. As binding law, constitutional provisions do not need

legislation to implement them, at least without evidence of a contrary intent. Some

states treat all of the provisions in their Bills of Rights as presumptively self-




         89 Enforcing State Constitutions Through Constitutional Torts, 139 Harv. L.

Rev. 1402, 1407 (2026).

                                            47
executing.90 Others examine each right individually.91 Notably, whether a provision

is self-executing does not mean it automatically supports a damages remedy. A court

must answer that question separately.92

      In Shields, the Supreme Court of Vermont identified four factors to consider

when determining whether a constitutional provision is self-executing. First, the




      90 See, e.g., Phillips v. Youth Dev. Program, Inc., 459 N.E.2d 453, 457 n.4 (Mass.

1984) (“[T]here is no need for legislative implementation to afford an appropriate
remedy to redress a violation of [explicit state constitutional] rights.”); Cooper v.
Nutley Sun Printing Co., 175 A.2d 639, 643 (N.J. 1961) (indicating that courts have
inherent power to enforce the New Jersey Constitution even in the absence of
enabling legislation); Robb v. Shockoe Slip Found., 324 S.E.2d 674, 681 (Va. 1985)
(“[C]onstitutional provisions in bills of rights and those merely declaratory of common
law are usually considered self-executing.”).

      91 See, e.g., Moresi v. State, 567 So.2d 1081, 1092–93 (La. 1990) (holding that

constitutional right to privacy was self-executing); Leger v. Stockton Unified Sch.
Dist., 249 Cal. Rptr. 688, 690–93 (Cal. Ct. App. 1988) (holding that constitutional
right to safe schools was not self-executing); Schreiner v. McKenzie Tank Lines & Risk
Mgmt. Servs., Inc., 408 So.2d 711, 714 (Fla. 1st Dist. Ct. App. 1982) (holding
constitutional prohibition against discrimination for a physical disability was self-
executing); Walinski v. Morrison & Morrison, 377 N.E.2d 242, 244–45 (Ill. App. Ct.
1st Dist. 1978) (holding anti-discrimination clause was self-executing); Agostine v.
Sch. Dist. of Phila., 527 A.2d 193, 195 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 1987) (holding constitutional
provision calling for “a thorough and efficient system of education” was not self-
executing); Shields v. Gerhart, 658 A.2d 924, 928–30 (Vt. 1995) (holding free speech
clause was self-executing but natural-rights clause was not).

      92 See Shields, 658 A.2d at 930–31; see Dick Fischer Dev. No. 2, Inc. v. Dep’t of

Admin., 838 P.2d 263, 268 (Alaska 1992) (declining to recognize damages remedy for
due process violation when other administrative remedies available); Bd. of Cty.
Comm’rs v. Sundheim, 926 P.2d 545, 553 (Colo. 1996) (declining to do the same);
Rockhouse Mountain Prop. Owners Ass’n, Inc. v. Town of Conway, 503 A.2d 1385,
1389 (N.H. 1986) (declining to recognize damages remedy for due process or equal
protection violations where administrative remedies were available). See generally
Sharon N. Humble, Implied cause of action for damages for violation of provisions of
state constitutions, 75 A.L.R.5th 619 (2000 & Supp.).

                                          48
provision “should do more than express only general principles; it may describe the

right in detail, including the means for its enjoyment and protection.” 93 Second, “a

self-executing provision does not contain a directive for further action.” 94 Third,

legislative history should not counsel against self-execution.95 Finally, self-execution

“must harmonize with the scheme of rights established in the constitution as a

whole.”96 As a convenient shorthand, this decision calls this inquiry the “Self-

Executing Test.”

      The Self-Executing Test contrasts with the Implicit Delaware Test by placing

primary emphasis on whether the constitutional provision supports the requested

private right of action, which is only the first inquiry in the Implicit Delaware Test.

Under the Self-Executing Test, if the constitutional provision is self-executing, then

the constitution controls and must be enforced, regardless of any lack of

implementing legislation.97 “The dynamic of our constitutional system is that

individuals need not await legislative action before asserting a fundamental right.




      93 Shields, 658 A.2d at 928.


      94 Id.


      95 Id.


      96 Id.


      97 Id. at 927 (“Therefore, the absence of legislative enabling statutes cannot be

construed to nullify rights provided by the constitution if those rights are sufficiently
specified.”); see Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137, 163 (1803) (“The very essence of civil
liberty certainly consists in the right of every individual to claim the protection of the
laws, whenever he receives an injury.”).

                                           49
The Nation’s courts are open to injured individuals who come to them to vindicate

their own direct, personal stake in our basic charter. An individual can invoke a right

to constitutional protection when he or she is harmed, even if the broader public

disagrees and even if the legislature refuses to act.”98

      At least initially, the Self-Executing Test does not engage in the type of policy-

based balancing that the last four questions in the Implicit Delaware Test

contemplate, such as whether existing remedies are adequate, whether other policy

reasons counsel against the right of action, or whether the judiciary is empowered to

create the right of action. The Self-Executing Test treats the constitution as the

state’s supreme law and therefore as already answering those questions in favor of

an enforceable right.99 Those considerations can, however, come into play when




      98  Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U.S. 644, 677 (2015); see Leonard G. Ratner,
Majoritarian Constraints on Judicial Review, 27 Vill. L. Rev. 929, 930 (1982) (“If all
governmental action should be subject to constitutional constraints and the
majoritarian branches ought not define the constraints on their own power, that
function must be performed by the judiciary, ‘the least dangerous branch.’” (citing
The Federalist No. 78 (Alexander Hamilton); A. Bickel, The Least Dangerous Branch
(1962))).

      99 Shields, 658 A.2d at 927 (“We note at the outset the preeminence of the

Vermont Constitution in our governmental scheme. As the expression of the will of
the people, a constitution stands above legislative or judge-made law”); id. (“To
deprive individuals of a means by which to vindicate their constitutional rights would
negate the will of the people in ratifying the Constitution, and neither this Court nor
the Legislature has the power to do so.”); see Davis v. Burke, 179 U.S. 399, 403 (1900)
(“[W]here a constitution asserts a certain right, or lays down a certain principle of
law or procedure, it speaks for the entire people as their supreme law, and is full
authority for all that is done in pursuance of its provision.”).

                                           50
determining whether to recognize money damages as an available form of relief.100

      Brown101 illustrates the self-executing approach at the state level. There, the

New York Court of Appeals followed Shields in (1) confirming that the provisions of

its state constitution were “presumptively self-executing,”102 (2) cautioning that a

violation of a self-executing provision “will not always support a claim for

damages,”103 then (3) recognizing a damages remedy for violations of the state’s equal

protection clause and its search and seizure clause.104

      Federal case law supports the concept of self-executing provisions, and an early

decision from the Supreme Court of the United States deployed the term.105 Although

the Supreme Court of the United States as constituted during more recent decades

has distanced itself from that approach,106 important decisions that treated



      100 See Shields, 658 A.2d at 932–36 (considering broader policy issues,
including the availability of other remedies, when evaluating whether to recognize a
monetary damages remedy).

      101 Brown v. State of New York, 674 N.E.2d 1129 (N.Y. 1996).


      102 Id. at 1137.


      103 Id. at 1138.


      104 Id. at 1139.


      105 Davis, 179 U.S. at 403 (“A constitutional provision may be said to be self-

executing if it supplies a sufficient rule by means of which the right given may be
enjoyed and protected, . . . and it is not self-executing when it merely indicates
principles, without laying down rules by means of which those principles may be
given the force of law.”).

      106 See Susan Bandes, Reinventing Bivens: The Self-Executing Constitution, 68

S. Cal. L. Rev. 289, 297–99 (1995).

                                          51
provisions of the U.S. Constitution as self-executing include Brown v. Board of

Education,107 Ex parte Young,108 and Swafford,109 among others.110

      Federal decisions also reinforce the distinction between a private right of

action to seek injunctive or declaratory relief and a private right of action that

supports a money damages remedy. Ex parte Young is perhaps the best-known

example of the former. There, the Supreme Court of the United States permitted “an

injunction which restrains the state officer from taking any steps towards the

enforcement of an unconstitutional enactment, to the injury of complainant.”111 Since

then, the justices have explained that the Ex parte Young doctrine “allows suits . . .




      107 Brown v. Bd. of Educ. of Topeka, Kan., 347 U.S. 483 (1954) (right to sue in

federal court for violation of equal protection clause of Fourteenth Amendment).

      108  Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123 (1908) (right to sue in federal court for
violation of due process clause under the Fourteenth Amendment).

      109 Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U.S. 487, 494 (1902) (right to sue in federal

court for violation of constitutional right to vote for a member of Congress).

      110  The Thirteenth and Fifteenth Amendments overruled an unfortunate
example of another self-executing provision—the Fugitive Slave Clause. U.S. Const.
art. IV, § 2. An antebellum decision held that provision supported a private right of
action for the recovery of the fugitive slave. See Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 41 U.S. 539,
625 (1842).

      111 Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. at 159. See David L. Shapiro, Ex parte Young and

the Uses of History, 67 N.Y.U. Ann. Surv. Am. L. 69, 74 (2011) (framing Ex parte
Young as allowing “a federal action [to] lie to enjoin a state officer from going to state
court to seek civil or criminal enforcement of a state law when the action is based on
the ground that enforcement will violate the constitutional rights of the plaintiff”);
Katherine Mims Crocker, Ex parte Young Redux, 103 Wash. U. L. Rev. 1549, 1549
(2026) (framing Ex parte Young as “permitting federal courts to prevent state officials
from enforcing unconstitutional state statutes”).

                                           52
for declaratory or injunctive relief against state officers in their official capacities”112

who “are violating, or planning to violate, federal law.”113 Scholars describe Ex parte

Young as “a ‘bedrock’ foundation for suits to enjoin enforcement of unconstitutional

state (and federal) law.”114

       Over a century later, the Supreme Court of the United States reaffirmed Ex

parte Young’s fundamental principle. In Armstrong, the Court wrote that “[t]he

ability to sue to enjoin unconstitutional actions by state and federal officers is the

creation of courts of equity, and reflects a long history of judicial review of illegal




       112 Reed v. Goertz, 598 U.S. 230, 234 (2023).


       113 Armstrong v. Exceptional Child Ctr., Inc., 575 U.S. 320, 326 (2015).


       114 William Baude, Jack Goldsmith, John F. Manning, James E. Pfander &

Amanda L. Tyler, Hart And Wechsler’s The Federal Courts And The Federal System
1190 (8th ed. 2025) (citing Barry Friedman, The Story of Ex parte Young: Once
Controversial, Now Canon, in Federal Courts Stories 247 (Vicki C. Jackson & Judith
Resnik eds., 2010)); see also id. at 1191 (“In its wake, Judge Henry Friendly described
[Ex parte Young] as the ‘fountainhead’ of civil rights enforcement; Professor Charles
Alan Wright called it ‘indispensable’ . . . .”); Crocker, supra, at 1552 (describing Ex
parte Young as “one of the most important cases facilitating the protection of
constitutional rights in American law”); James E. Pfander & Jacob P. Wentzel, The
Common Law Origins of Ex parte Young, 72 Stan. L. Rev. 1269, 1269 (2020)
(describing Ex parte Young as “a cornerstone of modern constitutional litigation”).

                                            53
executive action, tracing back to England.”115 On the facts of Armstrong, however, the

Court denied relief.116

       As with state-level authorities, federal authorities point to more complex

considerations when determining if a private right of action for a constitutional

violation can support a damages claim. Bivens117 stands as the most famous example.

There, the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Fourth Amendment

“guarantees to citizens of the United States the absolute right to be free from

unreasonable searches and seizures carried out by virtue of federal authority.”118 The




       115 Armstrong, 575 U.S. at 327 (citing Louis Leventhal Jaffe & Edith G.
Henderson, Judicial Review and the Rule of Law: Historical Origins, 72 L.Q. Rev. 345
(1956)); see id. (“‘[R]elief may be given in a court of equity . . . to prevent an injurious
act by a public officer.’” (quoting Carroll v. Safford, 44 U.S. 441, 463 (1845)).

       116Id. at 326–32. The plaintiffs in Armstrong attempted to sue under the
Supremacy Clause. The Court held that no private right of action to enforce the
Supremacy Clause existed, and the Medicaid Act precluded, rather than provided for,
a private right of action to enforce the section in question. Id.

        Armstrong and other recent decisions have sparked debate about whether the
Supreme Court of the United States is retreating from Ex parte Young. See, e.g., Note,
Congressional Intent to Preclude Equitable Relief: Ex parte Young After Armstrong,
131 Harv. L. Rev. 827, 829 (2018); Vicki C. Jackson, Seminole Tribe, the Eleventh
Amendment, and the Potential Evisceration of Ex parte Young, 72 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 495
(1997); David P. Currie, Ex parte Young After Seminole Tribe, 72 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 547
(1997). As traditionally understood, however, Ex parte Young and its progeny
demonstrate that private parties can obtain injunctions preventing government
officials from taking unconstitutional actions.

       117 Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents of the Fed. Bureau of Narcotics, 403

U.S. 388 (1971) (Fourth Amendment, searches and seizures).

       118 Id. at 392.


                                            54
Court also explained that “where federally protected rights have been invested, it has

been the rule from the beginning that courts will be alert to adjust their remedies so

as to grant the necessary relief.”119 For purposes of enforcing the Fourth Amendment

through a cause of action for damages, the Court saw “no special factors counseling

hesitation in the absence of affirmative action by Congress.”120

       Justice Harlan concurred. He explained that the judiciary has a particular

responsibility to enforce the federal Bill of Rights, which was “intended to vindicate

the interests of the individual in the face of the popular will as expressed in legislative

majorities.”121 He maintained that where the U.S. Constitution created the right, the

Court had the power to craft a remedy.122

       Three justices dissented. They argued against recognizing a damages remedy

and in favor of “recommending a solution to the Congress as the branch of government

in which the Constitution has vested the legislative power.”123

       After Bivens, the Supreme Court of the United States recognized two

additional private rights of action to recover damages for breaches of constitutional




       119 Id. (cleaned up).


       120 Id. at 396.


       121 Id. at 407 (Harlan, J., concurring).


       122 Id. at 400–01 (Harlan, J., concurring).


       123Id. at 412 (Burger, C.J., dissenting); accord id. at 427–28 (Black, J.,
dissenting); id. at 430 (Blackmun, J., dissenting).

                                            55
provisions. In Davis,124 the Court authorized a former congressional staffer to pursue

a damages remedy against a member of Congress who had violated the Fifth

Amendment’s guarantee of due process by discriminating against the staffer on the

basis of sex. Significantly for this case, the Court in Carlson125 recognized a private

right of action for violations of the Eighth Amendment. The Court looked for “special

factors counselling hesitation in the absence of affirmative action by Congress” and

found none.126 The Court found that Congress had not created an equally effective

alternative remedy and, when enacting the Federal Tort Claims Act, expected a

damages remedy for violations of constitutional provisions to remain available. 127

The Court also cited features that made the constitutional cause of action superior

and the remedy under the Federal Tort Claims Act comparatively inadequate.128




      124 Davis v. Passman, 442 U.S. 228 (1979) (Fifth Amendment, due process, sex

discrimination).

      125 Carlson v. Green, 446 U.S. 14 (1980).


      126 Id. at 18.


      127 Id. at 20–21.


      128 Id. at 20–24. Since Carlson, changes in the composition of the Court have

led to sharply different views on implied rights of action for money damages. See
Richard H. Fallon, Jr., Bidding Farewell to Constitutional Torts, 107 Cal. L. Rev. 933,
951 (2019) (“In the years following Davis v. Passman and Carlson v. Green, the
Supreme Court has rejected Bivens claims in every context in which it has ruled on
them.”); see, e.g., Butz v. Economou, 438 U.S. 478 (1978) (no implied right of action
where qualified and absolute immunity doctrines precluded damages suit); Bush v.
Lucas, 462 U.S. 367, 374, 378 n.14 (1983) (no implied right of action for a federal
employee alleging First Amendment violations because a statutory remedy, though
“less than complete” was “clearly constitutionally adequate”); Chappell v. Wallace,

                                          56
462 U.S. 296 (1983) (no implied right of action for military personnel in a suit against
a superior officer); Schweiker v. Chilicky, 487 U.S. 412, 423 (1988) (no implied right
of action where the Social Security Act failed to provide consequential damages for
previous denial of back benefits because “Congress has provided what it considers
adequate remedial mechanisms”); F.D.I.C. v. Meyer, 510 U.S. 471 (1994) (no implied
right of action against agency itself, as Bivens designed to deter the individual
officer); Correctional Servs. Corp. v. Malesko, 534 U.S. 61 (2001) (same); Wilkie v.
Robbins, 551 U.S. 537 (2007) (no implied right of action where other administrative
remedies available); Hui v. Castaneda, 559 U.S. 799 (2010) (no implied right of action
where the Federal Tort Claims Act provided absolute immunity to federal employee
and limited recovery to suits against the United States itself); Minnecci v. Pollard,
565 U.S. 118 (2012) (no implied right of action where state law remedies adequate
even if not perfectly congruent with potential Bivens remedy). In 2017, the Supreme
Court distilled a two-step test for determining whether an implied right of action
exists under Bivens. First, the court asks whether the case presents a new Bivens
context that differs meaningfully from previous Bivens cases. If so, the court asks
whether there are any special factors that counsel hesitation about extending Bivens
to this new context. See Ziglar v. Abbasi, 582 U.S. 120 (2017) (referring to Bivens,
Davis, and Carlson as an “ancien regime”). The cases that followed Abbasi limited
Bivens’ application further. See Hernandez v. Meza, 589 U.S. 93, 103 (2020) (applying
Abbasi and holding that a cross-border shooting presented a “glaringly obvious” new
context and special factors of national security and foreign affairs counseled against
extending Bivens); Egbert v. Boule, 596 U.S. 482, 483, 492 (2022) (describing the
Abbasi inquiry as “often resolv[ing] to a single question: whether there is any reason
to think that Congress might be better equipped to create a damages remedy” and
stating “if there is even a single reason to pause before applying Bivens in a new
context, a court may not recognize a Bivens remedy”); see also Danielle C. Jefferis,
RIP Bivens, 103 Neb. L. Rev. 1, 2 (2024) (“[S]ince the Supreme Court’s most recent
decision on the issue in Egbert v. Boule, lower federal courts have overwhelmingly
heeded the Court’s repeated admonitions to avoid extending the cause of action to
virtually all contexts that do not precisely mirror the three cases in which the Court
recognized the cause of action decades ago: Bivens itself, Davis v. Passman, and
Carlson v. Green.”). Despite this recent trend, Bivens, Davis, and Carlson
demonstrate that courts can treat constitutional provisions as self-executing and
craft remedies to make them meaningful. See Carlos M. Vásquez, Bivens and the
Ancien Régime, 96 Notre Dame L. Rev. 1923, 1926 (2021) (citing Justice Powell’s
decision in Cannon v. University of Chicago, 441 U.S. 677, 733 n.3 (1979), as
recognizing the Court’s “traditional responsibility to safeguard constitutionally
protected rights” and “the freer hand [the Court] necessarily ha[s] in the
interpretation of the Constitution” as permitting “greater judicial creativity with
respect to implied causes of action.”).

                                          57
      The self-executing approach thus finds support at both the state and federal

levels. For injunctive and declaratory relief, the self-executing approach is well-

established. Where money damages are concerned, the inquiry is more complex.

      3.        Common Law Enforcement

      Rather than treating constitutional provisions as self-executing, some courts

view them as enforceable under the common law.129 When taking this approach,

courts have looked to Section 874A of the Restatement (Second) of Torts.130

      Section 874A addresses tort liability for violating a “legislative provision,” but

the commentary defines that term as including “constitutional provisions.”131 The

blackletter states:

      When a legislative provision protects a class of persons by proscribing
      or requiring certain conduct but does not provide a civil remedy for the
      violation, the court may, if it determines that the remedy is appropriate
      in furtherance of the purpose of the legislation and needed to assure the
      effectiveness of the provision, afford to an injured member of the class a
      right of action, using a suitable existing tort action or a new cause of
      action analogous to an existing tort action.132

The commentary explains that “[i]f, in a particular case, the court determines that it

is appropriate to provide a civil action in order to effectuate the policy behind a




      129 See Enforcing State Constitutions, supra, at 1407.


      130 Id.


      131 Restatement (Second) of Torts § 874A cmt. a (Am. L. Inst. 1979), Westlaw

(database updated June 2026).

      132 Id. § 874A.


                                          58
legislative provision, that civil action will normally sound in tort.”133 As a result, the

action can support “damages or injunctive relief.”134 One commentator argues that

“[s]tate bills of rights provisions are exceptionally amenable to enforcement by a

section 874A ‘implied’ right of action because they tend to be phrased as declarations

either of positive rights or of limitations on government, but without simultaneously

specifying a ‘civil remedy.’”135

       The Restatement advises that “[t]he primary test for determining whether the

courts should provide a tort remedy . . . is whether this remedy is consistent with the

legislative provision, appropriate for promoting its policy and needed to assure its

effectiveness.”136 The Restatement suggests considering the following factors:

       (1) The nature of the legislative provision. . . .

       (2) The adequacy of existing remedies. . . .

       (3) The extent to which the tort action will aid or supplement or interfere
       with, existing remedies and other means of enforcement. . . .

       (4) The significance of the purpose that the [provision at issue seeks] to
       effectuate. . . .

       (5) The extent of the change in tort law. . . .




       133 Id. § 874A cmt. f.


       134 Id.


       135 Jennifer Friesen, Recovering Damages for State Bills of Rights Claims, 63

Tex. L. Rev. 1269, 1283 (1985).

       136 Restatement (Second) of Torts, supra, § 874A cmt. h.


                                            59
      (6) The burden that the new cause of action will place on the judicial
      machinery. . . .137

The Restatement recommends basing the cause of action on “the most similar common

law tort,”138 while explaining that “[i]f there is no common law tort sufficiently

analogous . . . , a new tort may be created for the purpose.”139

      To assess legislative purpose, the Restatement calls for looking for indications

of legislative intent in the text or legislative history. It also suggests applying the

maxim ubi ius ibi remedium, or “where there is a right, there is a remedy.”140 That

maxim suggests “that if the legislation created a right it must have been intended to

create an adequate remedy to enforce that right.”141 At the same time, the

Restatement acknowledges that in some situations, the maxim of expressio unius

exclusio alterius est may cut in the opposite direction.

      If there is no discernible legislative intent either way, then the Restatement

suggests asking “how the legislative body ‘would have dealt with the concrete

situation’ if it had had the situation before it in the way in which it is now before the

court.”142 Conducting that inquiry requires “looking for the policy behind the



      137 Id.


      138 Id. cmt. f.


      139 Id.


      140 Id. cmt. c.


      141 Id.


      142 Id. cmt. d.


                                           60
legislative provision, attempting to perceive the purpose for which it was enacted,

and then, having ascertained that policy or purpose, determining the most

appropriate way to carry it out and identifying the remedy needed to accomplish that

result.”143

       Doubtless recognizing that some resist the notion of judicially created causes

of action, the Restatement takes pains to stress how common it is. “Common law torts

were created by the courts, and they are still subject to being modified by the courts.

. . . New torts arise with some frequency, and they are usually judicially created.”144

       Judicial adaptation of common law torts because of the passage of
       criminal statutes or other legislation is not a rare occurrence, although
       the extent to which it takes place may not have been generally
       recognized. It has happened, for example, in such diverse torts as
       battery, false imprisonment, trespass to real property, privacy, deceit,
       defamation, seduction, interference with advantageous relations and
       intentional infliction of emotional distress.145

The Restatement nevertheless cautions that a court “must be acutely aware of the

discretionary decisions that are posed for it and the heavy responsibility that they

entail,” even though the court “will ordinarily discuss the problem largely in terms of

ascertaining the legislative intent or purpose.”146

       Although no Delaware court has used Section 874A to address whether a




       143 Id.


       144 Id. cmt. f.


       145 Id.


       146 Id. cmt. i.


                                          61
constitutional provision gives rise to a cause of action, Delaware decisions have relied

on Section 874A when determining whether a statute supports a cause of action for

money damages.147 For purposes of statutory analysis, “[t]he inquiry is threefold: (1)

whether the plaintiff is a member of a class for whose special benefit the statute was

enacted; (2) whether there is any indication of legislative intent to create or deny

a private right of action; and (3) whether recognition of an implied private right [of]

action would advance the statute’s purpose.”148 Most Delaware decisions have




      147 Doe v. Bradley, 2011 WL 290829, at *14–17 (Del. Super. Jan. 21, 2011)

(declining to create a private right of action for violations of statutes imposing
reporting requirements on medical professionals); accord Doe 30’s Mother v. Bradley,
58 A.3d 429, 453 (Del. Super. 2012) (reiterating rejection of right of action for
violating statutory reporting requirement).

      148 Thompson v. Lewis, 324 A.3d 255, 257 (Del. Super. 2024); accord Schuster

v. Derocili, 775 A.2d 1029, 1036 n.42 (Del. 2001).

                                          62
declined to recognize private rights of action to enforce statutes,149 but a few have.150




      149 See, e.g., Brett v. Berkowitz, 706 A.2d 509, 511 (Del. 1998) (holding that

“claims against the lawyer for offensive touching and sexual harassment cannot be
based on criminal statutes, although they could be the basis for a claim of intentional
tort”); Oceanport Indus., Inc. v. Wilm. Stevedores, Inc., 636 A.2d 892, 896–99 (Del.
1994) (declining to recognize a private right of action to appeal decisions of the
Environmental Appeals Board under 7 Del. C. §§ 6008(a) & 7210); Grand Ventures,
Inc. v. Whaley, 632 A.2d 63, 70 (Del. 1993) (declining to recognize a private right of
action for consumers under the Deceptive Trade Practices Act, 6 Del. C. § 2532);
Miller v. Spicer, 602 A.2d 65, 68 (Del. 1991) (declining to recognize private right of
action under Equal Accommodation Act, 6 Del. C. § 4502); Yeilding v. Council of Ass’n
of Unit Owners of Pelican Cove Condo., 2022 WL 1161347, at *10 (Del. Ch. Apr. 20,
2022) (declining to recognize a private right of action under 25 Del. C. § 2205); O’Neill
v. Town of Middletown, 2006 WL 205071, at *20–22, *24 (Del. Ch. Jan. 18, 2006)
(declining to recognize private right of action under 29 Del. C. §§ 9103, 9203 & 9204
or under 17 Del. C. §§ 131 & 508); Couch v. Delmarva Power & Light Co., 593 A.2d
554, 559 (Del. Ch. 1991) (declining to recognize private right of action under 3 Del. C.
§ 902); Lock v. Schreppler, 426 A.2d 856, 863–67 (Del. Super. 1981) (declining to
recognize a private right of action under 24 Del. C. § 2912(a)); Callaway v. N. B.
Downing Co., 172 A.2d 260, 262–63 (Del. Super. 1961) (declining to recognize a
private right of action under 29 Del. C. § 6916).

      150 See, e.g., Young v. Joyce, 351 A.2d 857, 858–59 (Del. 1975) (recognizing

private cause of action for violation of Consumer Fraud Act, 6 Del. C. § 2511, and 6
Del. C. § 2513); Thompson, 324 A.3d at 259 (recognizing private cause of action under
Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility Act, 21 Del. C. § 2907); Heller v. Dover
Warehouse Mkt., Inc., 515 A.2d 178, 181 (Del. Super. 1986) (recognizing private right
of action for employees under anti-polygraph statute, 19 Del. C. § 704); Smith v.
Delaware Coach Co., 70 A.2d 257, 261–62 (Del. Ch. 1949) (permitting private litigant
to seek injunctive relief to enforce 47 Del. C. § 254; “The powers of the Public Service
Commission are wholly statutory, and if it does not comply with the prescribed
jurisdictional provisions, action pursuant to any order made may be enjoined by a
court of equity under its long established general jurisdiction unless some other
exclusive remedy at law is given by the statute.”); cf. Schuster, 775 A.2d at 1036
(recognizing a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
based on sexual harassment in the workplace; finding cause of action not precluded
by 19 Del. C. §§ 711 & 712); Brown v. City of Wilm., 2019 WL 141744, at *6 (Del.
Super. Jan. 8, 2019) (recognizing right to enforce mandatory health insurance policy
through combination of collective bargaining agreement and Appropriations Act).

                                           63
      4.        Right-To-A-Remedy Clauses

      A final pathway for recognizing state constitutional torts turns on a provision

that the U.S. Constitution lacks: a right-to-a-remedy clause. Provisions of that sort

appear in forty state constitutions and generally provide that “every [person] for . . .

injury done [to person, property, or reputation] . . . shall have remedy in court.”151

      Some courts have interpreted right-to-a-remedy clauses as requiring a remedy

whenever a right has been violated.152 Others have held that the provisions only

restrict legislatures from altering or amending well-established common law

rights.153 Still others have held that the provisions merely declare a broad principle

of justice that provides guidance to the legislature.154 Under a strong reading, a right-

to-remedy clause must, at a minimum, protect absolute rights enshrined in state

constitutions, unless a state has provided adequate protection through a statutory

scheme.155

      Under the right-to-a-remedy approach, a court must initially determine

whether the constitutional right is mandatory. If so, then the court must assess

whether (1) no remedial scheme exists, (2) a common law remedy but no statutory




      151 Enforcing State Constitutions, supra, at 1408 (footnote omitted).


      152 Id.


      153 Id. at 1409.


      154 Id.


      155 Id.


                                           64
remedial scheme exists, (3) a statutory remedial scheme exists that is not expressly

exclusive or does not otherwise preempt constitutional rights of action, or (4) a

statutory scheme exists that is exclusive or that preempts constitutional rights of

action. The court should also consider the potential availability of immunities.156

      When a right exists but the legislature has not established a remedial scheme,

courts have the most freedom to act because there is the least risk of implicating

separation of powers concerns. In that setting, the right calls for a remedy.

      Where there is a common law remedy but no statutory scheme, the case for a

constitutional right of action is weaker, but only marginally so. While some courts

have treated existing common law remedies as sufficient, other courts have

recognized that constitutional rights warrant greater protection and serve different

interests than state tort law. In this setting, separation of powers concerns are not

extant because common law remedies are judicially created already. Therefore,

“[w]hen a common law remedy exists, but no statutory one, courts should still craft

constitutional remedies when necessary to ensure adequate rights enforcement.” 157

      If an existing legislative remedy exists, then courts should ask two questions.

First, is the remedy exclusive? Second, is the remedy adequate?

      If the remedy is not exclusive and inadequate, then the court remains free to

fashion a constitutional remedy. Even if the remedy is exclusive, the court has a




      156 Id. at 1418–21.


      157 Id. at 1414.


                                          65
responsibility to assess whether the remedy is inadequate to ensure that the

constitutional right is protected, although courts should defer to the legislature’s

judgment when doing so.158

B.    Framing A Suggested Test

      Without guidance from the Delaware Supreme Court, this decision combines

the various approaches to create a test. As a convenient shorthand, this decision calls

it the “Suggested Test.”

      The Suggested Test starts with the first question in the Implicit Delaware

Test: Does the language of the constitutional provision support the requested private

right of action? That is equivalent to asking whether the provision is self-executing.

      Because of that equivalence, answering that question warrants considering

versions of the four factors that the Self-Executing Test uses:

•     Does the provision describe an affirmative or negative right that goes beyond
      expressing general principles?

•     Is the provision free from indications that legislative implementation is
      contemplated?

•     Does the provision’s history support treating it as self-executing?

•     Does treating the provision as self-executing fit harmoniously with the scheme
      of rights established in the Delaware Constitution as a whole?

If the answer to each question is “yes,” then the constitutional provision is self-

executing and supports a private right of action.

      At that point, the Suggested Test adopts a core premise of the Self-Executing



      158 Id. at 1414–18.


                                          66
Test, namely that a distinction exists between recognizing a private right of action

that a court can enforce through equitable relief and authorizing a private right of

action to seek money damages. Recognizing a private right of action is presumptively

sufficient for equitable relief.159

       The Suggested Test overlaps with the analysis that Delaware courts use when

determining whether to imply a private right of action under a statute. The Suggested

Test sweeps in the implied-statutory-remedy test’s second question, i.e., whether

there is any indication of legislative intent to create or deny a private right of action.

The Suggested Test does not expressly incorporate the first question, i.e., whether

the plaintiff is a member of a specific class that the provision seeks to protect. Because

many constitutional rights seek to establish fundamental protections for residents or,

at a minimum, citizens, the special class inquiry fits poorly. But if the provision does

suggest special protection for a specific class that includes the plaintiff, that is a

consideration that favors self-execution. At this stage of the analysis, the Suggested

Test does not consider the third question, i.e., whether recognition of an

implied private right of action would advance the statute’s purpose. If a provision is




       159 See Birney v. Del. Dep’t of Safety & Homeland Sec., 2022 WL 16955159, at

*2 (Del. Ch. Nov. 16, 2022) (“Nonetheless, if the Plaintiffs require equity to enforce a
finding of unconstitutionality—that is, if it appears that the State would otherwise
attempt to enforce an unconstitutional statute—they have stated a quintessential
basis for equitable jurisdiction.”); see also id. (“That is not to say that equity has no
place in the enforcement of constitutional rights. It plainly, even famously, does.”
(citing Belton v. Gebhart, 87 A.2d 862 (Del. Ch.), aff’d, 91 A.2d 137 (Del. 1952), aff’d
sub nom. Brown v. Bd. of Educ. of Topeka, Kan., 349 U.S. 294 (1955).

                                           67
self-executing, then the implied private right of action advances its purpose.

      The Suggested Test folds the concept of common law enforcement into the

inquiry into whether the provision’s history supports treating it as self-executing. If

the provision reflects a right that the Anglo-American courts traditionally enforced,

then that is part of the provision’s history and supports treating it as self-executing.

      The Delaware Constitution has a right-to-a-remedy clause. The Suggested Test

accounts for its implications when evaluating whether treating a provision as self-

executing fits harmoniously with Delaware’s constitutional scheme.

      If the analysis has proceeded this far, then the Suggested Test adopts the

framework proposed by the right-to-a-remedy approach, which calls on the court to

assess whether (1) no remedial scheme exists, (2) a common law remedy but no

statutory remedial scheme exists, (3) a statutory remedial scheme exists that is not

expressly exclusive or does not otherwise preempt constitutional torts, or (4) a

statutory remedial scheme exists that is exclusive. If a remedial scheme exists, then

the court must assess whether it is constitutionally adequate.

      Determining whether the remedial scheme is constitutionally adequate asks

the same question as the third step of the Implicit Delaware Test, but from the

opposite direction. The Implicit Delaware Test asks, “Is there a need for the private

right of action or does the plaintiff already have adequate remedies?” At this point in

the inquiry under the Suggested Test, the constitutional right exists and is self-

executing. The burden, therefore, should rest on the proponents of the alternative

remedy to show that it is adequate. The burden should not rest on the party seeking

                                          68
to enforce the constitutional provision to show that a private right of action is needed.

      The resulting inquiry resembles how a court evaluates whether a legislative

remedy displaces the Court of Chancery’s equitable jurisdiction over an area of law.160

That makes sense, because the question is whether the remedial scheme displaces

the Court of Chancery’s ability to use equitable relief to enforce a constitutional right.

That allocation of the burden also reflects that:

      The very purpose of a Bill of Rights was to withdraw certain subjects
      from the vicissitudes of political controversy, to place them beyond the
      reach of majorities and officials and to establish them as legal principles
      to be applied by the courts. Fundamental rights may not be submitted
      to a vote; they depend on the outcome of no elections.161




      160 See DuPont v. DuPont, 85 A.2d 724, 729–30 (Del. 1951) (“We conclude,

therefore, that Section 17 [of the Constitution of 1897] is not an authorization to the
Legislature to restrict Chancery jurisdiction to less than it was in 1792. We think the
Constitutions of 1792, 1831 and 1897 intended to establish for the benefit of the
people of the state a tribunal to administer the remedies and principles of equity.”;
holding that the General Assembly cannot deprive the Court of Chancery of
jurisdiction without authorizing a fully sufficient alternative remedy that is “the
equivalent of the remedy available in the Court of Chancery”); see also Glanding v.
Indus. Tr. Co., 45 A.2d 553, 558–59 (Del. 1945) (“It cannot be said too forcefully that
the general powers of the Court of Chancery refers to that complete system of equity
as administered by the High Court of Chancery of Great Britain, and a proper
interpretation of the constitutions of this State lead to but one conclusion; that is,
that the Court of Chancery shall continue to exercise that complete system of equity
jurisdiction in all respects until the Legislature of this State shall provide otherwise,
as by granting the exercise of a part of that jurisdiction exclusively to some other
tribunal.”).

      161 W. Va. State Bd. of Educ. v. Barnette, 319 U.S. 624, 638 (1943); accord

Obergefell, 576 U.S. at 677 (“The dynamic of our constitutional system is that
individuals need not await legislative action before asserting a fundamental right.
The Nation’s courts are open to injured individuals who come to them to vindicate
their own direct, personal stake in our basic charter. An individual can invoke a right
to constitutional protection when he or she is harmed, even if the broader public

                                           69
If constitutional rights depended on legislative implementation for enforcement, then

they would not be fundamental rights. They would exist as a matter of legislative

grace.

         If a remedial scheme exists and is constitutionally adequate, then the implied

right of action has been displaced. If no remedial scheme exists or if the scheme is not

constitutionally adequate, then the analysis ends—at least for purposes of a private

right of action that does not contemplate monetary relief. A private right of action

exists and is judicially enforceable.

         In reaching this conclusion, the Suggested Test proceeds from the premise that

the Delaware Constitution is the state’s supreme law. If the analysis has reached this

stage, then the provision demands potential equitable enforcement. The framers of

the Delaware Constitution have answered the policy question in favor of the

constitutional right. There also are no separation of powers issues or questions

regarding the judiciary’s competence to enforce the provision. The Delaware

Constitution has again answered those questions by including the self-executing




disagrees and even if the legislature refuses to act.”); Ratner, supra, at 929 (observing
“the context of a constitution, and promptly adopted amendments, designed to protect
minorities, including individuals, from oppressive majority action”); see also id. at 930
(“If all governmental action should be subject to constitutional constraints and the
majoritarian branches ought not define the constraints on their own power, that
function must be performed by the judiciary, ‘the least dangerous branch.’” (citing
The Federalist No. 78 (Alexander Hamilton); Bickel, supra, The Least Dangerous
Branch)); Girardeau A. Spann, Race Against the Court: The Supreme Court &
Minorities in Contemporary America 2 (1993) (“[T]he Supreme Court is expected to
insulate minority rights from the majoritarian efforts at exploitation to which those
rights would otherwise be vulnerable.”).

                                           70
provision in the constitution.

      The Suggested Test, therefore, does not ask the last three questions in the

Implicit Delaware Test, namely:

•     Are there policy reasons that would counsel against recognizing the private
      right of action?

•     Is the judiciary constitutionally empowered and equipped to recognize the
      requested private right of action?

•     Does the constitutional provision, an existing state statute, or established
      common law doctrine sufficiently define the contours of the requested private
      right of action so as to make it reasonably administrable?

By contrast, if the question is whether to grant an implied right of action that

supports monetary relief, then considering those additional issues is warranted.

C.    Applying The Suggested Test

      Applying the Suggested Test to the Cruel Punishment Clause supports

recognizing a cause of action for injunctive relief. This decision does not address

whether a violation of the Cruel Punishment Clause could support a money damages

remedy.

      1.     Does The Cruel Punishment Clause Describe A Right That Goes
             Beyond General Principles?

      The first factor is whether the Cruel Punishment Clause describes an

affirmative or negative right that goes beyond expressing general principles, such as

hortatory statements, aspirational ideals, or broad concepts. To reiterate, the Cruel

Punishment Clause appears in Article I, Section 11 of the Delaware Constitution,

which states in its entirety: “Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines

imposed, nor cruel punishments inflicted; and in the construction of jails a proper

                                          71
regard shall be had to the health of prisoners.”162

      The Cruel Punishment Clause is the third of three mandatory clauses, each

framed in the negative. First, excessive bail must not be required. Second, excessive

fines must not be imposed. Third, cruel punishments must not be inflicted. Those

clauses precede one mandatory clause framed affirmatively: When constructing jails,

give proper regard to prisoners’ health.

      Those provisions are not hortatory statements, aspirational ideals, or broad

concepts about how government should hopefully work.163 Nor do they provide

general guidance for the General Assembly to follow when legislating.

      The Delaware Supreme Court has treated both the Excessive Bail Clause164




      162 Del. Const. art. I, § 11.


      163 Compare id. pmbl. (“Through Divine goodness, all people have by nature

the rights of worshiping and serving their Creator according to the dictates of their
consciences, of enjoying and defending life and liberty, of acquiring and protecting
reputation and property, and in general of obtaining objects suitable to their
condition, without injury by one to another; and as these rights are essential to their
welfare, for due exercise thereof, power is inherent in them; and therefore all just
authority in the institutions of political society is derived from the people, and
established with their consent, to advance their happiness; and they may for this end,
as circumstances require, from time to time, alter their Constitution of government.”).
The hortatory language in the preamble “does not have independent legal effect.”
Randy J. Holland, The Delaware State Constitution 30 (2011).

      164 See State v. Mitchell, 212 A.2d 873, 884–86 (Del. Super. 1965) (considering

challenge by sureties to forfeit of bail bond on the argument that bail was excessive
once accused was imprisoned in Pennsylvania; surveying history of bail and rejecting
challenge on the merits).

                                           72
and the Cruel Punishment Clause165 as self-executing in the sense of having directly

enforceable content (admittedly without using the term “self-executing”). Delaware

courts have not yet had the opportunity to consider the other two clauses in the

provision.

      At this point, an advocate against treating the Cruel Punishment Clause as

self-executing might cite Schueller. When declining to recognize a private right of

action to assert a damages claim for the use of excessive force, that order noted that

Article I, Section 6 of the Delaware Constitution “does not mention excessive force.” 166

Textually true: The provision prohibits “unreasonable searches and seizures.”167 A

court therefore would have to read the use of excessive force into the concept of




      165 See Sanders v. State, 585 A.2d 117, 134 (Del. 1990) (upholding challenge

under Cruel Punishment Clause to verdict of guilty but mentally ill based on jury
instructions that did not enable jury to properly weigh proportionality of sentence);
State v. Ayers, 260 A.2d 162, 169 (Del. 1969) (rejecting challenge under Cruel
Punishment Clause where sentence fell within General Assembly’s discretion to
impose “traditional punishments”); State v. Cannon, 190 A.2d 514, 518 (Del. 1963)
(rejecting challenge to whipping under Cruel Punishment Clause where there had
been “no legal and effective expression of the people speaking through the General
Assembly that whipping is a cruel punishment in the constitutional sense”); In re
Robertson, 54 A.2d 848, 850 (Del. Ct. Gen. Sess. 1947) (rejecting on the merits
challenge under Cruel Punishment Clause to change in juvenile’s location of
confinement); State v. Deputy, 644 A.2d 411, 422 (Del. Super.) (rejecting challenge to
lethal injection under Cruel Punishment Clause on the merits), aff’d, 648 A.2d 423
(Del. 1994).

      166 Schueller, 2017 WL 568344, at *1.


      167 Del. Const. art. 1, §   6.

                                           73
“unreasonable,” as many courts have done.168 One could similarly object that the




      168 The foundational authority is Graham v. Connor, where the Supreme Court

of the United States held that “all claims that law enforcement officers have used
excessive force—deadly or not—in the course of an arrest, investigatory stop, or other
‘seizure’ of a free citizen should be analyzed under the Fourth Amendment and its
‘reasonableness’ standard,” observing that the Fourth Amendment provides an
“explicit textual source of constitutional protection against this sort of physically
intrusive governmental conduct.” 490 U.S. 386, 394–95 (1989). See Kristina C.
Castillo, Supreme Court Jurisprudence on Governmental Use of Excessive Force as
Violation of Constitutional or Civil Rights, 80 A.L.R. Fed. 3d Art. 3 (2023 & Supp.)
(collecting United States Supreme Court cases analyzing excessive force under the
Fourth Amendment’s “reasonableness” standard); Richard P. Shafer, When does
police officer’s use of force during arrest become so excessive as to constitute violation
of constitutional rights, imposing liability under Federal Civil Rights Act of 1871 (42
U.S.C.A. § 1983), 60 A.L.R. Fed. 204 (1982 & Supp.) (collecting federal cases
addressing the Fourth Amendment’s prohibition of excessive force).

       Courts have found that similar state constitutional provisions prohibit
excessive force. See, e.g., Woodall v. Godfrey, 553 P.3d 249, 256 (Colo. App. 2024)
(holding that a “claim that an officer used excessive force . . . implicates the
reasonableness requirement” of Colorado constitutional provision prohibiting
“unreasonable searches and seizures”); Stepp v. Cottrell, 874 S.E.2d 700, 707 (W. Va.
2022) (“Claims of excessive force . . . are governed by the standards of the search and
seizure clause contained in West Virginia’s Constitution” prohibiting “unreasonable
searches and seizures”); id. (describing the state’s search and seizure clause as “the
specific textual source of such protection”); Bosh v. Cherokee Cty. Bldg. Auth., 305
P.3d 994, 1004 (Okla. 2013) (allowing detainee to sue for excessive force under
provision of Oklahoma Constitution prohibiting “unreasonable searches or seizures”);
Cyr v. City of Bangor, 2014 WL 794574, at *6 (D. Me. Feb. 27, 2014) (holding that
excessive force claim under provision of Maine Constitution prohibiting
“unreasonable searches and seizures” is evaluated under same standard as Fourth
Amendment’s “objective reasonableness” standard); Jones, 890 A.2d at 1206 (finding
that the “protections” from “governmental use of excessive force” under the Fourth
Amendment and the Pennsylvania constitutional provision similarly prohibiting
“unreasonable searches and seizures” are “coextensive”); see also Hines v. French, 852
A.2d 1047, 1069 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 2004) (holding that the “standards for analyzing
claims of excessive force are the same under [the provisions] of the Maryland
Constitution as that under the Fourth Amendment,” although constitutional
provisions did not use the words “reasonable” or “unreasonable”).


                                           74
Cruel Punishment Clause does not expressly address OC decontamination, or OC, or

the use of force in prisons, or prison conditions generally.

      Those are debates about the content of the clauses, so they straddle the line

between the threshold question of whether a clause is self-executing and how to apply

it. Courts can and have given content to terms like “reasonable” or “unreasonable” in

many contexts.169 Courts likewise can and have given content to a term like “cruel.”




      Of course, interpreting a prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizures to
encompass the use of excessive force is different than recognizing a cause of action
for money damages based on the violation. Schueller made its comment when
addressing the latter, not the former.

      169 See “Reasonableness,” A.L.R. Index to Annotations, Westlaw (index updated

May 2026) (indexing more than ninety American Law Report annotations addressing
courts’ interpretations of reasonableness in various areas of American law, such as
the reasonableness of attorneys’ fees, 56 A.L.R.5th 107, Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans,
63 A.L.R. Fed. 309, the use of an easement of way, 3 A.L.R.3d 1256, an individual’s
expectation of privacy, 62 A.L.R.5th 1, an individual’s use of self-defense, 73
A.L.R.4th 993, or an employee’s refusal of medical services provided by their employer
in workers’ compensation cases, 72 A.L.R.4th 905); Frédéric G. Sourgens, Reason and
Reasonableness: The Necessary Diversity of the Common Law, 67 Me. L. Rev. 73, 74–
75 (2014) (arguing that “[r]easonableness is the keystone of the common law” and
citing as examples that “reasonableness governs liability in negligence cases,
determines what performance a contract requires, sets the scope of permissible police
intrusion in people’s private affairs, defines the limit of criminal liability, [ ]
administers the diversity of the student body at state universities, . . . [and] informs
corporate law, banking law, commercial law, bankruptcy law, and civil procedure”
(footnotes omitted) (collecting authorities)); Brandon L. Garrett, Constitutional
Reasonableness, 102 Minn. L. Rev. 61, 69–70 (2017) (“Reasonableness standards are
pervasive in administrative law, civil procedure, contract law, corporate law, criminal
law, criminal procedure, employment discrimination law, tort law, and innumerable
other fields.” (footnotes omitted) (collecting authorities)); Robert Unikel, Comment,
“Reasonable” Doubts: A Critique of the Reasonable Woman Standard in American
Jurisprudence, 87 Nw. U. L. Rev. 326 (1992) (“From its modest beginnings,
‘reasonableness’ has gained a prominent position in almost every area of American
law. A general survey reveals that the concept of ‘reasonableness’ is a standard of

                                           75
In Robertson, for example, a juvenile prisoner challenged a change in the location of

confinement from one facility to another under the Cruel Punishment Clause.170 The

Delaware Supreme Court held that a court must consider “the actual conditions and

manner of incarceration” when assessing whether there is a violation of the Cruel

Punishment Clause.171 Courts interpreting the Eighth Amendment have likewise

held that it covers conditions of confinement and treatment of prisoners.172 Those




decisionmaking in administrative law, bailment law, constitutional law, contract law,
criminal law, tort law, and the law of trusts.” (footnotes omitted) (collecting
authorities)).

      170 In re Robertson, 54 A.2d at 848.


      171 Id. at 850.


      172 See Rhodes v. Chapman, 452 U.S. 337, 347 (1981) (holding that the Eighth

Amendment applies “when the conditions of confinement compose the punishment at
issue” and that “[c]onditions must not involve the wanton and unnecessary infliction
of pain, nor may they be grossly disproportionate to the severity of the crime
warranting imprisonment”); Hutto v. Finney, 437 U.S. 678, 685 (1978) (holding that
“[c]onfinement in a prison or in an isolation cell is a form of punishment subject to
scrutiny under Eighth Amendment standards”); Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97, 104
(1976) (holding that Eighth Amendment includes treatment of prisoners and
prohibits “deliberate indifference to serious medical needs of prisoners”).

       In subsequent decisions, the Supreme Court of the United States has
developed the law governing how courts apply the Eighth Amendment test. E.g.,
Farmer v. Brennan, 511 U.S. 825, 829 (1994) (interpreting concept of “deliberate
indifference”). The Court has not held that the Eighth Amendment has no application
to prison conditions. To the contrary: “The Constitution does not mandate comfortable
prisons, but neither does it permit inhuman ones, and it is now settled that the
treatment a prisoner receives in prison and the conditions under which he is confined
are subject to scrutiny under the Eighth Amendment.” Id. at 832 (cleaned up). Justice
Holland recognized this principle. See Deputy v. Dr. Conlan, 947 A.2d 1121 (Del. 2007)
(TABLE) (“Deliberate indifference to a prisoner’s serious medical needs violates the
Eighth Amendment’s prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment.”); id.

                                         76
rulings demonstrate that the Cruel Punishment Clause carries content that a court

can enforce.

      The Cruel Punishment Clause describes a specific, mandatory right. The plain

language of the Cruel Punishment Clause supports treating it as self-executing.

      2.       Is The Cruel Punishment Clause Free Of Indications That
               Legislative Implementation Is Contemplated?

      The second question is whether the Cruel Punishment Clause is free from

indications that legislative implementation is contemplated. It is. There is no

reference to the provision being enforced through legislation or otherwise requiring

implementation.

      Other sections of the Delaware Bill of Rights, by contrast, contemplate

legislative implementation. For example:

•     Article I, Section 9: “All courts shall be open; and every individual for an injury
      done to the individual’s reputation, person, or movable or immovable
      possessions, shall have remedy by the due course of law, and justice
      administered according to the very right of the cause and the law of the land,
      without sale, denial, or unreasonable delay or expense. Suits may be brought
      against the State, according to such regulations as shall be made by law.”173




(“Deliberate indifference can occur when prison officials deny, delay or intentionally
interfere with medical treatment or it may be shown in the way in which prison
officials provide medical care.”).

      173 Del. Const. art. I, § 9 (emphasis added). The sentence that includes the

italicized language is “the basis for the doctrine of sovereign immunity in Delaware.”
Holland, supra, at 68. As a result of that provision, “sovereign immunity is an
absolute bar to liability claims against the State of Delaware unless it is waived by
the General Assembly.” Id. The General Assembly has implemented this provision by
adopting the Delaware Tort Claims Act. Id. The waiver of sovereign immunity
requires express statutory language. “For example, a party that enters into a contract

                                          77
•     Article I, Section 10: “No power of suspending laws shall be exercised but by
      authority of the General Assembly.”174

•     Article I, Section 17: “No standing army shall be kept without the consent of
      the General Assembly, and the military shall in all cases and at all times be in
      strict subordination to the civil power.”175

•     Article I, Section 18: “No soldier shall in time of peace be quartered in any
      house without the consent of the owner; nor in time of war but by a civil
      magistrate, in a manner to be prescribed by law.”176

No comparable language appears in the Cruel Punishment Clause.

      3.     Does The History Of The Cruel Punishment Clause Support
             Treating It As Self-Executing?

      The third question is whether the history of the Cruel Punishment Clause

supports treating the provision as self-executing. It does. Delaware courts have

enforced the Cruel Punishment Clause without requiring implementing legislation.

Equally important, the broader American tradition of using injunctive relief to

protect constitutional rights supports the availability of an action for injunctive relief

based on prison conditions.

      Delaware courts have consistently applied the Cruel Punishment Clause




with a state agency authorized to enter into contracts has all remedies available,
including a suit for breach of contract. Article I, Section 8 of the Delaware
Constitution also operates as a waiver of sovereign immunity in condemnation
proceedings.” Id.

      174 Del. Const. art. I, § 10 (emphasis added).


      175 Id. § 17 (emphasis added).


      176 Id. § 18 (emphasis added).


                                           78
without any requirement for implementing legislation.177 Before this case, however,

no litigant had asked the Court of Chancery to use its equitable powers to enforce the

Cruel Punishment Clause.

      Based on venerable doctrine, the Court of Chancery lacks jurisdiction to

interfere with a criminal prosecution or criminal sentencing.178 Here, however, the

plaintiffs are not asking the court to do either. They ask the court to use its equitable

power to require that a government agency comply with a constitutional mandate.

That form of equitable relief reflects a long American tradition.

      During the nineteenth century, American courts began to deploy their




      177 E.g., Wright v. State, 633 A.2d 329, 336–39 (Del. 1993) (evaluating whether

failure to instruct jury that it could consider age and family background as mitigating
circumstances was unconstitutional under either Eighth Amendment or Cruel
Punishment Clause); Sanders, 585 A.2d at 134 (relying on Cruel Punishment Clause
when requiring penalty-phase jury instructions sufficient to permit a jury to assess
proportionality when considering the death penalty following a verdict of guilty but
mentally ill); State v. Dickerson, 298 A.2d 761, 767–68 (Del. 1972) (testing mandatory
death penalty for murder under both Eighth Amendment and Cruel Punishment
Clause).

      178  See generally Aditya Bamzai & Samuel L. Bray, Debs and the Federal
Equity Jurisdiction, 98 Notre Dame L. Rev. 699, 709 (2022) (“In order to channel and
to define the scope of its extraordinary authority, the Court of Chancery and the
broader equity tradition developed a series of doctrines to limit equitable powers—
principles about what equity will not do. Equity will not enjoin a crime [and] will not
enjoin a criminal proceeding . . . .” (footnotes omitted)); Robert A. Leflar, Equitable
Prevention of Public Wrongs, 14 Tex. L. Rev. 427, 427 (1936) (“It is traditional for
courts of equity to state that they have nothing to do with the enforcement of criminal
law.”); L.S. Tellier, Injunction as available remedy against prosecution or arrest for
conducting business or practicing profession without a license, 167 A.L.R. 915 (1947
& Supp.).

                                           79
equitable powers to address public law controversy.179 John Norton Pomeroy led the

way in encouraging courts to use injunctive relief to address public law issues,180

arguing that only equity had the power to do “complete justice.”181 Delaware courts

continue to rely on Pomeroy’s treatise.182

      By 1908, injunctive relief had become the dominant form by which federal




      179  Both English and American courts previously achieved similar results
through the broad and flexible use of common law writs, such as mandamus,
certiorari, and prohibition. See Pfander & Wentzel, supra, at 1296–1307, 1309–18. At
the federal level, in the mid-nineteenth century, Chief Justice Taney led the Supreme
Court of the United States in constraining the use of common law writs. See id. at
1307–08. At the state level, after the merger of law and equity, courts deployed the
more flexible equitable remedies in lieu of the more procedurally rigid common law
writs. See id. at 1320–23. After the Civil War, federal courts followed state courts in
deploying injunctive relief to enforce constitutional and statutory rights. See id. at
1328–32. The trend accelerated after Congress conferred federal question jurisdiction
in 1875, at which point courts proceeded on the theory that once they had jurisdiction,
they could exercise the powers available to a court of equity. Id. at 1347.

      180 See id. at 1323–24.


      181 1 John Norton Pomeroy, A Treatise on Equity Jurisprudence § 175 (5th ed.

1941); see generally id. §§ 259–260, 269, 333.

      182 See, e.g., Reid v. Spazio, 970 A.2d 176, 182 n.24 (Del. 2009); Schoon, 953

A.2d at 204–5; Kallop v. McAllister, 678 A.2d 526, 531 (Del. 1996); Adams v.
Jankouskas, 452 A.2d 148, 152 n.4 (Del. 1982); Wilmont Homes, Inc. v. Weiler, 202
A.2d 576, 579–80 (Del. 1964); Chavin v. H. H. Rosin & Co., 246 A.2d 921, 922 (Del.
1968); DBMP LLC v. Del. Claims Processing Facility, LLC, 349 A.3d 663, 678 n.38
(Del. Ch. 2025); FirstString Rsch., Inc. v. JSS Med. Rsch. Inc., 2021 WL 2182829, at
*8 n.53 (Del. Ch. May 28, 2021); United BioSource LLC v. Bracket Hldg. Corp., 2017
WL 2256618, at *7 n.51 (Del. Ch. May 23, 2017); Kraft, 145 A.3d at 979 n.38; Mass.
Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London, 2010 WL 3724745, at
*4 (Del. Ch. Sept. 24, 2010); Taylor v. Jones, 2006 WL 4804648, at *3 n.10 (Del. Ch.
May 25, 2006).

                                             80
courts enforced constitutional rights.183 In Ex parte Young, stockholders in a railroad

sued derivatively in federal court to enjoin Edward Young, the Minnesota Attorney

General, from enforcing allegedly “confiscatory” railway rates, contending they

violated the corporation’s right to due process under the Fourteenth Amendment.184

After the district court issued the injunction and enforced it through a contempt

sanction, Young sought habeas review contending that the lawsuit equated to an

action against the State of Minnesota in contravention of the Eleventh

Amendment.185 The Supreme Court of the United States held that the suit could

proceed because a court had the power to enjoin defendants who, “as officers of the

state, . . . clothed with some duty in regard to the enforcement of the laws of the state,

. . . threaten . . . to enforce against parties affected an unconstitutional act [and]

violat[e] the Federal Constitution.”186 The majority opinion described the railroad’s

ability to raise the constitutional violation as a defense in the state enforcement




      183 Pfander & Wentzel, supra, at 1332.


      184 Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. at 148. Everyone involved viewed the state court

mandamus proceeding that Young intended to bring and later pursued in violation of
the injunction as the equivalent of a criminal enforcement action where a court of
equity historically would have lacked jurisdiction to interfere. Pfander & Wentzel,
supra, at 1274. See, e.g., In re Sawyer, 124 U.S. 200, 211 (1888) (observing that the
High Court of Chancery “has no jurisdiction to grant an injunction to stay proceedings
on a mandamus; nor to an indictment; nor to an information; nor to a writ of
prohibition” (quoting Montague v. Dudman (1751) 28 Eng. Rep. 253, 254; 2 Ves. Sen.
396, 398)).

      185 Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. at 134.


      186 Id. at 155–56.


                                           81
proceeding as “plainly inadequate.”187

        For purposes of the rule of law, Ex parte Young reflected progress along two

axes:

        One involves a movement from the common law of torts to constitutional
        norms to define the standards to which the rule of law most urgently
        requires official adherence. The second is from damages to equitable
        remedies as the more indispensable safeguard of constitutional rights.
        Since the emergence of the modern regulatory state, the greatest threat
        to constitutional rights comes from statutes and regulations that are
        enforceable through criminal and civil penalties, not isolated acts of
        traditionally tortious lawlessness by individual officials.188

The decision thus marked an important step for holding public officials accountable

under the rule of law.189

        The principles set out in Ex parte Young flowered in cases like Brown v. Board

of Education,190 which enforced the Fourteenth Amendment directly, without relying

on Section 1983 as a statutory vehicle.191 More recently, the Supreme Court of the

United States has confirmed the availability of direct applications for injunctive relief

against allegedly unconstitutional acts, unless Congress provides an adequate




        187 Id. at 165.


        188 Fallon, supra, at 972.


        189 Id. at 944 (“The rule of law requires that governments and their officials be

accountable to law.”).

        190 347 U.S. 483.


        191 It was not until 1978 that the Supreme Court of the United States held that

local government units were “persons” for purposes of suit under Section 1983. See
Monell v. Dep’t of Soc. Servs., 436 U.S. 658, 690 (1978).

                                           82
alternative remedy.192

       In Delaware, that same tradition is particularly strong. In a series of landmark

decisions, Chancellor Seitz issued injunctive relief mandating that first the

University of Delaware and later Delaware’s public schools comply with the

Fourteenth Amendment, without requiring a statutory vehicle.193

       Enforcing the Cruel Punishment Clause through injunctive relief for purposes

of the type of claim the prisoners seek to litigate in this case, therefore, comports with

history. Delaware courts have treated the Cruel Punishment Clause as having self-

executing content, and Delaware courts have enforced constitutional rights through

injunctive relief.194




       192 Axon Enter., Inc. v. Fed. Trade Comm’n, 598 U.S. 175, 185–96 (2023)
(explaining analytical framework and holding that statutory scheme did not foreclose
constitutional challenge seeking injunctive relief); Free Enter. Fund v. Pub. Co. Acct.
Oversight Bd., 561 U.S. 477, 489–90 (2010) (rejecting contention that statutory
limitations on jurisdiction to hear challenges to agency action prevented federal
courts from entertaining claim for injunctive and declaratory relief contending that
for-cause limitation on removal of agency board members was unconstitutional).

       193  Belton, 87 A.2d at 863 (“The question for decision in both cases here
presented is whether the State of Delaware, through its agencies, has violated the
plaintiffs’ rights under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the United States Constitution.”); Parker v. Univ. of Del., 75 A.2d 225, 227 (Del. Ch.
1950) (“The basic question to be decided involves the application of one of the great
guarantees of the Constitution of the United States—the equal protection of the
laws.”).

       194 That does not mean that this particular judge is the right person to consider

claims for injunctive relief under the Cruel Punishment Clause. The Court of
Chancery does not handle criminal matters, and I am profoundly aware of my lack of
experience in this area. Although it is true that courts often deal with new areas of
law, expertise is a valuable commodity. If I am correct that actions of this type can

                                           83
      4.     Does Treating The Cruel Punishment Clause As Self-Executing
             Fit Harmoniously With The Delaware Constitution?

      The next question asks whether treating the Cruel Punishment Clause as self-

executing fits harmoniously with Delaware’s constitutional scheme. It does.

      As a threshold matter, treating the Cruel Punishment Clause as self-executing

comports with how the Delaware Supreme Court has described the courts’ role in

Delaware’s constitutional scheme: “We conceive it the duty of the courts to protect

constitutional guarantees . . . . We believe that as long as the Constitution of this

state contains the guarantees to the citizen referred to, we have no choice but to use

every means at our disposal to preserve those guarantees.”195 The Delaware Supreme

Court has described its own role in similar terms, explaining in a case challenging

the constitutionality of two statutes that “[t]he Court’s role—indeed, our duty—is to

hold the challenged statutory enactments up to the light of our Constitution and




proceed—and only the Delaware Supreme Court can address that definitively—then
they would be good candidates for designating judges in the Delaware Superior Court
as Vice Chancellors for purposes of hearing the applications. See Del. Const. art. IV,
§ 13(2) (“The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court . . . shall have general administrative
and supervisory powers over all the courts. Such powers shall include the following:
. . . (2) Upon written request made by the Chancellor . . . to designate 1 or more of the
State Judges . . . to sit in the Court of Chancery . . . and to hear and decide such
causes in such Court and for such period of time as shall be designated.”). I suggest
that not to shirk the work, which is important, challenging, and interesting, but in
deference to the superior knowledge that my Superior Court colleagues have
regarding criminal matters. Here, having already presided over the injunction
hearing, it makes sense to soldier on.

      195 Rickards v. State, 77 A.2d 199, 205 (Del. 1950).


                                           84
determine whether they are consonant or discordant with it.”196

      Two constitutional provisions point in the same direction. Delaware’s right-to-

a-remedy clause and Delaware’s preservation of a separate court of equity indicate

that treating the Cruel Punishment Clause as self-executing fits harmoniously within

Delaware’s constitutional framework. So does Delaware’s tradition of permitting

direct enforcement of constitutional provisions.

             a.     The Right-To-A-Remedy Clause

      Article I, Section 9 of the Delaware Constitution grants every citizen a right to

a remedy for harm suffered. It states:

      All courts shall be open; and every individual for an injury done to the
      individual’s reputation, person, or movable or immovable possessions,
      shall have remedy by the due course of law, and justice administered
      according to the very right of the cause and the law of the land, without
      sale, denial, or unreasonable delay or expense. Suits may be brought
      against this State, according to such regulations as shall be made by
      law.197

The constitutional commitment that “every individual for an injury done to the

individual[] . . . shall have remedy” is Delaware’s Right-to-a-Remedy Clause.198

      The Right-to-a-Remedy Clause has its origins in Magna Carta.199 Sir Edward



      196 Higgin, 295 A.3d at 1097.


      197 Del. Const. art. I, § 9.


      198 The first clause of the section is the Open Courts Clause. See Holland, supra,

at 64–65 (explaining origins and purpose of clause).

      199 Chapter 29 of the 1225 version of Magna Carta states: “N[o] freeman shall

be taken or imprisoned or disseised of any freehold, or liberties, or free customs, or
outlawed, or banished, or in any other way destroyed, nor will we go upon him, nor

                                          85
Coke championed Magna Carta as the root from which “many fruitfull branches of

the law of England have sprung,” including the protection of individuals from official

acts of oppression.200 He interpreted Magna Carta as standing for the proposition that

      every subject of this realm, for injury done to him in goods, lands, or
      person, by any other subject, be he ecclesiastical, or temporall, . . . or any
      other without exception, may take his remedy by the course of the law,
      and have justice, and right for the injury done to him, freely without
      sale, fully without any deniall, and speedily without delay.201

Delaware’s 1776 Declaration of Rights contained language modeled on Coke’s

formulation.202

      In the eighteenth century, Sir William Blackstone described the right to a

remedy as one of the subordinate rights by which a civilized society preserved the

three absolute rights of personal security, personal liberty, and private property.203

Those rights existed in the state of nature. Once humans formed into societies,

individuals required means of protecting their absolute rights. The right to a remedy



send upon him, except by the legal judgment of his peers or by the law of the land. To
no one will we sell, to no one will we deny, or delay right or justice.” Thomas R.
Phillips, The Constitutional Right to a Remedy, 78 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1309, 1310 n.4
(2003).

      200 Id. at 1320.


      201 Id. at 1320–21 (alteration omitted).


      202 1776 Declaration of Rights § 12 (“That every freeman for every injury done

him in his goods, lands or person, by any other person, ought to have remedy by the
course of the law of the land, and ought to have justice and right for the injury done
to him freely without sale, fully without any denial, and speedily without delay,
according to the law of the land.”).

      203 Phillips, supra, at 1321–22.


                                           86
was one of the five subordinate rights that “serve principally as outworks or barriers

to protect and maintain inviolate the three great and primary rights.” 204 Once a

person suffered injury, the right to an “adequate remedy” immediately attached,

although judicial process might be necessary to enforce the right.205 Common law

courts stood ready to exercise jurisdiction over all cases involving injury to absolute

rights, “[f]or it is a settled and invariable principle in the laws of England, that every

right when withheld must have a remedy, and every injury its proper redress.”206

      This history has particular significance for Delaware’s provision. Thomas

McKean and George Read served as two of the principal drafters of the Delaware

Constitution of 1776 and the Delaware Declaration of Rights.207 They had studied the

English common law with John Dickinson at the Middle Temple in London as

contemporaries of William Blackstone.208 The Delaware Constitution of 1776

included both a provision specifically adopting the existing common law of England209

and a right-to-a-remedy provision based on Coke’s formulation. Dickinson presided

over the convention that drafted the 1792 Delaware Constitution, which revised



      204 Id. at 1322 (quoting 1 William Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of

England 141 (Christian ed. 1822)).

      205 Id.


      206 Id. (quoting Blackstone, supra, at 109).


      207 Holland, supra, at 65.


      208 Id.


      209 Id. at 66.


                                           87
Article I, Section 9.210 As Justice Holland explained, “It is logical to infer, in the

absence of any provisions to the contrary, that John Dickinson and the other framers

of Delaware’s 1792 Constitution intended to continue the common law principle that

there must be a remedy for the violation of any vested right.”211

      Similar provisions now appear in the constitutions of forty states,212 but courts

have reached disparate results when applying them.213 For its part, the Delaware

Supreme Court has given our Right-to-a-Remedy Clause meaningful content.

      It is the duty of the courts to afford a remedy and redress for every
      substantial wrong. Part of our basic law is the mandate that “every man
      for an injury done him in his . . . person . . . shall have remedy by the
      due course of law . . . .” Neither volume of cases, nor danger of fraudulent
      claims, nor difficulty of proof, will relieve the courts of their obligation
      in this regard.214

The justices admonished that “if there be increased litigation, the courts must

willingly cope with the task.”215 The justices also noted that Delaware courts were




      210 Id. at 65.


      211 Id. at 66–67.


      212 Phillips, supra, at 1311–12.


      213 Id. at 1314 (describing the variation among outcomes as “essentially
inexplicable”).

      214 Robb v. Pa. R.R. Co., 210 A.2d 709, 714 (Del. 1965) (citation omitted); accord

Holland, supra, at 65 (“Under this Section, the courts have a duty to afford a remedy
for every substantial wrong; the volume of cases, danger of fraudulent claims, or
difficulty of proof do not eliminate this requirement.”).

      215 Robb, 210 A.2d at 714.


                                          88
capable of addressing “illusory and fictional claims.”216 To be sure, the Delaware

Supreme Court has held that the Right-to-a-Remedy Clause does not require the

courts to invent a common law cause of action otherwise unknown to the common

law,217 but that admonition does not apply when a constitutional provision

establishes the governing rule.

      The Right-to-a-Remedy Clause suggests that enforcing the Cruel Punishment

Clause through injunctive relief is consistent with the scheme of rights established

by Delaware’s constitution as a whole.

                b.   The Constitutional Grant Of Equitable Jurisdiction

      Another significant provision is Delaware’s constitutional preservation of a

Court of Equity. Delaware’s colonial courts exercised equity jurisdiction under a

statute known as the Gordon Act.218 Article XIII of the Delaware Constitution of 1776

carried forward that equitable jurisdiction but did not establish a separate Court of

Chancery.219 Article VI, Section 1 of the Delaware Constitution of 1792 established

the Court of Chancery and Article VI, Section 14 vested it with exclusive equity

jurisdiction,220 measured by “the general equity jurisdiction of the High Court of



      216 Id.


      217 Alfree v. Alfree, 410 A.2d 161, 163 (Del. 1979), abrogated on the merits by

Beattie v. Beattie, 630 A.2d 1096 (Del. 1993).

      218 Holland, supra, at 155.


      219 Id.


      220 Id.


                                          89
Chancery of Great Britain as it existed prior to the separation of the colonies.”221 By

doing so, the drafters “intended to establish for the benefit of the people of the state

a tribunal to administer the remedies and principles of equity.”222 The Delaware

Constitutions of 1831 and 1897 preserved the Court of Chancery and its equitable

jurisdiction.223 During the Convention of 1897, there was a lengthy debate about

whether a separate court of equity should continue to exist at a time when other

jurisdictions were merging their court systems, but the delegates chose to preserve

the Court of Chancery as a separate court of equity.224

       The power of a court of equity to hear claims has always been and necessarily

remains broad and flexible. “Historically, equity jurisdiction has taken its shape and

its substance from the perceived inadequacies of the common law and the changing

demands of a developing nation.”225 To administer a system of equity,

      the Chancellor always has had, and always must have, a certain power
      and freedom of action, not possessed by the courts of law, of adapting
      the doctrines which he administers. He can extend those doctrines to
      new relations, and shape his remedies to new circumstances, if the




      221 DuPont, 85 A.2d at 727.


      222 Id. at 729.


      223 Holland, supra, at 155–56.


      224 Id. at 156.


      225 Schoon, 953 A.2d at 204 (internal quotation marks omitted).


                                          90
      relations and circumstances come within the principles of equity, where
      a court of law in analogous cases would be powerless to give any relief.226

The Court of Chancery thus “has an expansive power, to meet new exigencies”227 and

“to meet changing needs.”228

      One of the maxims of equity is that equity will not suffer a wrong without a

remedy.229 Delaware’s preservation of the Court of Chancery as a separate court of

equity capable of exercising its powers to address new circumstances suggests that

enforcing the Cruel Punishment Clause through equitable relief fits harmoniously

with the scheme of rights established by Delaware’s constitution as a whole.

              c.   A Tradition Of Permitting Actions To Enforce The
                   Delaware Constitution

      Delaware’s tradition of permitting private parties to enforce provisions in the

Delaware Constitution provides additional evidence that treating the Cruel

Punishment     Clause   as     self-executing   fits   harmoniously   with   Delaware’s

constitutional scheme. Examples abound:

•     Article I, Section 1: In COVID-Related Restrictions on Religious Services,230
      religious leaders sued the Governor, challenging emergency COVID-19


      226 Id. at 204–05 (quoting 1 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence § 60, at 77–78 (5th

ed. 1941)).

      227 Id. at 206 (quoting Story’s Equity Jurisprudence n.5, at 45 (9th ed. 1866)).


      228 Id. at 205 n.24 (quoting Pomeroy, supra, § 60, at 77–78).


      229 See Donald J. Wolfe, Jr. & Michael A. Pittenger, Corporate and Commercial

Practice in the Delaware Court of Chancery, at v (2d ed. 2019) (listing “THE MAXIMS
OF EQUITY”).

      230 COVID-Related Restrictions, 326 A.3d at 626.


                                           91
      restrictions limiting the number of people who could gather in houses of
      worship as violating their right to religious freedom under Article I, Section 1.
      The justices denied the relief sought on justiciability and immunity grounds.

•     Article I, Sections 4, 7, 8, and 9: In Swan Energy,231 four individuals sued the
      Investor Protection Unit of the Delaware Department of Justice, challenging
      its administrative enforcement action against them for securities fraud and the
      unlawful sale of unregistered securities, and the statute authorizing the action,
      as violating their right to a jury trial under Article I, Section 4 and their due
      process rights under Article I, Sections 7, 8, and 9. No one argued that a private
      right of action did not exist. The justices denied the relief sought on the merits
      for the trial-by-jury claim and on ripeness grounds for the due process claim,
      without questioning whether there was a private right of action.

•     Article I, Section 7: In Jannuzzio,232 real estate owners sued the Directors and
      the Superintendent of Public Safety, the Chief of Police, and the Captain of
      Police of Wilmington, challenging a statutory amendment permitting police
      authorities to remove obstructions from buildings believed to be used for
      gambling purposes. They argued the statute authorized an interference with
      and a taking of property without providing an opportunity to be heard, in
      violation of the due process clause of the Delaware Constitution. They sought
      declaratory and injunctive relief. No one argued that a private right of action
      did not exist. Chancellor Seitz held that the statutory amendment was
      unconstitutional because it violated the due process hearing requirement. The
      court issued a permanent injunction enjoining the defendants from removing,
      destroying or demolishing, or causing the plaintiff or any other person to
      remove, destroy, or demolish any portion of the plaintiff’s building in reliance
      on the statutory amendment. The court did not question whether there was a
      private right of action.

•     Article I, Sections 7 and 8: In Randolph,233 a property owner sued the
      Wilmington Housing Authority, the Mayor, and the City Council, challenging
      a statute providing for the condemnation of private property for slum clearance
      and urban redevelopment by private contractors as a taking under Article I,
      Sections 7 and 8. No one argued that a private right of action did not exist. The
      Court of Chancery certified the constitutional questions to the Delaware


      231 Swan Energy, Inc. v. Inv. Prot. Unit of the Del. Dep’t of Just., — A.3d —,

2026 WL 2053613 (Del. July 16, 2026).

      232 Jannuzzio v. Hackett, 82 A.2d 730 (Del. Ch. 1951).


      233 Randolph v. Wilm. Hous. Auth., 139 A.2d 476 (Del. 1958).


                                          92
         Supreme Court, which held that the statute was constitutional, without
         questioning whether there was a private right of action.

•        Article I, Sections 7 and 8: In Delmarva Power & Light Co.,234 a private utility
         company sued the city of Seaford for annexing territory in its service area,
         which caused customers to switch to the municipal utility. The company
         challenged the act as a taking for public use without compensation under
         Article I, Sections 7 and 8. No one argued that a private right of action did not
         exist. The justices held that the company suffered a compensable taking,
         granting the relief sought on the merits without questioning whether there
         was a private right of action.

•        Article I, Section 9: In Sierra Club,235 the Sierra Club sued the Delaware
         Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, its secretary,
         and its deputy secretary, alleging, among other things, that dredging the
         Assawoman Canal without complying with environmental appeal board orders
         remanding the dredging permit for a proper cost/benefit analysis violates
         Sierra Club’s procedural due process rights under Article I, Section 9. No one
         argued that a private right of action did not exist. The justices denied the relief
         sought on the merits without questioning whether there was a private right of
         action.

•        Article I, Section 20: In Doe,236 two public housing residents sued the
         Wilmington Housing Authority and its executive director, challenging lease
         provisions restricting when residents, household members, and their guests
         may carry and possess firearms in common areas as violating their right to
         keep and bear arms under Article I, Section 20. No one argued that a private
         right of action did not exist. The defendants removed the case from the Court
         of Chancery to federal district court, which found no constitutional violations.
         On appeal, the Third Circuit certified the constitutional questions to the
         Delaware Supreme Court, which held that the rules violated Article I, Section
         20. The justices did not question whether there was a private right of action.




         234 Delmarva Power & Light Co. v. City of Seaford, 575 A.2d 1089 (Del. 1990).


         235 Sierra Club v. Del. Dep’t of Nat. Res. & Env’t Control, 919 A.2d 547 (Del.

2007).

         236 Doe v. Wilm. Hous. Auth., 88 A.3d 654 (Del. 2014).


                                             93
•     Article I, Section 20: In Bridgeville Rifle & Pistol Club,237 two gun rights
      interest groups (the Delaware State Sportsmen Association and the Bridgeville
      Rifle & Pistol Club, Ltd.) and several of their individual members sued the
      Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control and
      Department of Agriculture, challenging regulations banning firearms in state
      parks and forests (except for hunting) as violating their right to keep and bear
      arms under Article I, Section 20. No one argued that a private right of action
      did not exist. The justices granted the relief sought on the merits without
      questioning whether there was a private right of action.

•     Article II, Section 1: In Rosenthal,238 a chiropractor sued the State Board of
      Chiropractic Examiners, challenging the statutory procedure by which that
      board is appointed as violating Article II, Section 1, which provides that the
      legislative power of the state is vested in the General Assembly. No one argued
      that a private right of action did not exist. The justices declined to reach the
      merits on whether the statute was invalid and remanded for further
      proceedings without questioning whether there was a private right of action.

•     Article II, Section 3: In Cassidy,239 individuals hoping to be candidates for
      public office sued members of the Department of Elections for New Castle
      County, among others, challenging statutes mandating filing fees from
      candidates for public office as violating Article II, Section 3 by adding to the
      exclusive qualifications for office in that constitutional provision. No one
      argued that a private right of action did not exist. The Court of Chancery
      certified the constitutional questions to the Delaware Supreme Court, which
      held that the statutes were constitutional, without questioning whether there
      was a private right of action.240

•     Article V, Sections 4 and 4A: In Higgin,241 voters, a political candidate, and a
      volunteer elections inspector sued the State Election Commissioner and
      Department of Elections, challenging same-day registration and vote-by-mail


      237 Bridgeville Rifle & Pistol Club, Ltd. v. Small, 176 A.3d 632 (Del. 2017).


      238 Rosenthal v. State Bd. of Chiropractic Exam’rs, 413 A.2d 882 (Del. 1980).


      239 Cassidy v. Willis, 323 A.2d 598 (Del.), aff’d, 419 U.S. 1042 (1974).


      240 The Attorney General joined plaintiffs in their contention that the statutes

were unconstitutional, id. at 602, but the justices did not question whether there was
a private right of action.

      241 Higgin, 295 A.3d at 1065.


                                          94
    statutes as violating Article V, Sections 4 and 4A, which govern elections and
    voting. No one argued that a private right of action did not exist. The Court of
    Chancery held that the plaintiffs failed to prove the same-day registration
    statute was unconstitutional, but the vote-by-mail statute violated Article V,
    Section 4A. The court permanently enjoined the defendants from enforcing
    Delaware statutes allowing mail-in voting, without questioning whether there
    was a private right of action. On appeal, the justices held that both statutes
    were unconstitutional and granted the relief sought on the merits, without
    questioning whether there was a private right of action.

•   Article V, Sections 1 and 4A: In Mennella,242 an individual hoping to serve as
    an elections inspector and a state senator sued the State Election
    Commissioner and Department of Elections, challenging early-voting and
    permanent-absentee-voting statutes as violating Article V, Sections 1 and 4A,
    which govern elections and voting. No one argued that a private right of action
    did not exist. The justices denied the relief sought on standing grounds because
    their alleged injury as voters was generalized and insufficient, without
    questioning whether there was a private right of action.

•   Article VIII, Section 1: In Delaware Public Schools Litigation,243 two
    organizations (Delawareans for Educational Opportunity and the NAACP
    Delaware State Conference of Branches) sued several Delaware officials,
    challenging their methodologies for preparing property tax assessments as
    violating Article VIII, Section 1, which requires all tax to be uniform (the
    “Uniformity Clause”). After the Court of Chancery held, among other things,
    that the methodologies violated the Uniformity Clause, the parties reached a
    settlement during the remedial phase and then the court awarded attorneys’
    fees and expenses. The county officials appealed the award. No one argued that
    a private right of action did not exist. The justices reversed the attorneys’ fees
    award and affirmed the uncontested expenses award, without questioning
    whether there was a private right of action.

•   Article VIII, Section 1: In Newark Property Association,244 four organizations
    (Newark Property Association, Delaware Apartment Association, First State
    Manufactured Housing Association, and Delaware Hotel & Lodging
    Association) sued the State, the Governor, the New Castle County Executive,
    the county’s chief financial officer, and six school boards, challenging a house


    242 Albence v. Mennella, 320 A.3d 212 (Del. 2024).


    243 Del. Pub. Schs. Litig., 312 A.3d 703 (Del. 2024).


    244 Newark Prop. Ass’n v. State, 350 A.3d 1224 (Del. 2025) (TABLE).


                                        95
    bill allowing school districts to create temporary split-rate tax assessment
    systems between residential and non-residential properties as violating the
    Uniformity Clause. No one argued that a private right of action did not exist.
    The justices denied the relief sought on the merits without questioning
    whether there was a private right of action.

•   Article VIII, Sections 1 and 4: In Aetna Casualty & Surety Co.,245 insurance
    companies sued the State Insurance Commissioner, challenging two statutory
    amendments providing for an increase in the tax rate on gross premiums of
    fire insurance companies to increase funds available for the firemen’s pension
    fund and volunteer fire companies and of general insurance companies to
    augment police pension systems throughout the state. They argued the
    amendments violated the Uniformity Clause and Article VIII, Section 4
    because they appropriated public money to counties and municipalities and a
    corporation and were not passed by three-fourths of the members of each house
    of the General Assembly. They sought a declaratory judgment and a
    preliminary injunction. The Court of Chancery issued a preliminary injunction
    enjoining the Insurance Commissioner from paying the money raised under
    the amendments to the State Treasurer. The Chancellor then certified the
    constitutional questions to the Delaware Supreme Court, which held that the
    statutory amendments violated Article VIII, Section 4, without questioning
    whether there was a private right of action.

•   Article VIII, Section 1, and Article X, Section 1: In Brennan,246 a resident and
    taxpayer sued her district’s Board of Education and New Castle County’s
    Board of Assessment and Receiver of Taxes, challenging statutes authorizing
    the levying of a school tax as violating, among other things, the Uniformity
    Clause and Article X, Section 1 requiring a uniform system of free public
    schools. No one argued that a private right of action did not exist. The Court of
    Chancery certified the constitutional questions to the Delaware Supreme
    Court, which held that the statute was constitutional, without questioning
    whether there was a private right of action.

•   Article XV, Section 4: In Stiftel,247 eleven Superior Court judges sued the State
    Treasurer, Secretary of Finance, and other state officials, challenging an
    amendment to the State Judiciary Pension Act requiring higher deductions
    from their salaries to contribute to their pension benefits as violating Article


    245 Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co. v. Smith, 131 A.2d 168 (Del. 1957).


    246 Brennan v. Black, 104 A.2d 777 (Del. 1954).


    247 Stiftel v. Carper, 378 A.2d 124 (Del. Ch.), aff’d, 384 A.2d 2 (Del. 1977).


                                        96
         XV, Section 4, which prohibits reductions of a public officer’s salary or
         emoluments after their appointment. They sought declaratory and injunctive
         relief. No one argued that a private right of action did not exist. Vice Chancellor
         Brown held that the statute was unconstitutional as applied to the judicial
         officers under Article XV, Section 4 because the General Assembly could not
         diminish their salaries or emoluments after their appointment. The court
         issued a permanent injunction enjoining the state officials from making the
         higher deductions from the judges’ salaries, without questioning whether there
         was a private right of action. On appeal, the justices affirmed on the ground
         that the statute was unconstitutional as applied to the judges under Article
         XV, Section 4, without questioning whether there was a private right of action.

As these cases show, private individuals have been suing to enforce their state

constitutional rights, and Delaware courts, officials, and litigants generally did not

consider the concept of a private right of action as a barrier to those lawsuits. These

cases are consistent with the presumption that provisions of the Delaware

Constitution, and especially provisions of the Bill of Rights, are self-executing. These

cases indicate that treating the Cruel Punishment Clause the same way fits

harmoniously with the scheme of rights established by Delaware’s constitution as a

whole.

         5.    Is There An Alternative Enforcement Mechanism That Is
               Constitutionally Adequate?

         The final step in the Suggested Test’s analysis for purposes of injunctive relief

is to evaluate whether a constitutionally adequate enforcement mechanism already

exists. A court should proceed differently depending on whether (1) no remedial

scheme exists, (2) a common law remedy but no statutory remedial scheme exists, (3)

a statutory remedial scheme exists that is not expressly exclusive or does not

otherwise preempt constitutional claims, or (4) a statutory scheme exists that is

expressly exclusive.

                                             97
      Here, no statutory scheme exists under which prisoners can obtain the

equivalent of an injunction enforcing the Cruel Punishment Clause. The Department

has an internal prisoner grievance procedure governed by its Policy 4.4, but that

scheme is neither statutory nor regulatory nor exclusive.248 It is a bureau-level

procedure that the Commissioner oversees as a matter of policy, subject to limited

oversight by the Adult Correction Healthcare Review Committee.249

      An individual prisoner who suffered injury might be able to sue after the fact

for battery250 or gross negligence, but that type of individual common law action is




      248 It is a mandatory first step: A prisoner cannot file a complaint relating to a

condition of confinement without fully exhausting all administrative remedies
through the internal grievance procedure. 10 Del. C. § 8804(g) (“A prisoner may not
bring or file a complaint relating to a condition of confinement, whether proceeding
in forma pauperis or otherwise, unless the prisoner has fully exhausted all
administrative remedies available through the institutional grievance procedure. The
fact that monetary damages or any other form of legal or equitable relief may not be
available through the grievance procedure shall not excuse the inmate from
exhausting the institutional grievance procedure prior to filing a complaint.”). The
Commissioner did not raise the failure to exhaust administrative remedies as a
defense, likely because all but two of the plaintiffs satisfied that requirement.

      249 11 Del. C. § 6518(n)(4) (providing that the committee shall “[r]eceive and

review monthly summaries of inmate, staff, public, and other health-care related
grievances and the resolutions of these grievances in order to be fully appraised of
the state of health-care services in Delaware’s adult correction facilities”); id. §
6518(p) (providing that the committee “shall refer to the appropriate licensing board
grievance cases in which there is a serious deviation from the community standard of
care by a health-care worker or other employee of a prison health-care contractor, if
the health-care worker or other employee’s profession or occupation is governed under
Title 24.”).

      250 See In re Taylor v. Barwick, 1997 WL 527970, at *4 (Del. Super. Jan. 10,

1997) (denying correction officer’s motion for summary judgment on battery claim
while limiting prisoner to nominal damages).

                                          98
not an adequate substitute for forward-looking injunctive relief. A forward-looking

injunction can prevent or at least reduce the risk of serious harm or death. A

backward-looking damages remedy cannot.251 Moreover, a constitutional guarantee

like the Cruel Punishment Clause goes beyond the private interests that common law

torts protect. The Cruel Punishment Clause and other provisions in the Delaware

Constitution serve “to limit the sovereign power” of the state and as a guarantee of

fundamental rights.252 A common law tort claim does not adequately remedy the




      251 See Lyons, 461 U.S. at 137 (Marshall, J., dissenting) (observing that under

the majority’s view, federal courts cannot issue “an order to cease the
unconstitutional practice, but only an award of damages to those who are victimized
by the practice and live to sue and to the survivors of those who are not so fortunate”);
id. (“The federal judicial power is now limited to levying a toll for such a systematic
constitutional violation.”); Lankford v. Gelston, 364 F.2d 197, 202 (4th Cir. 1966)
(“[T]he lesson of experience is that the remote possibility of money damages serves as
no deterrent to future police invasions.”) (citing Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U.S. 643, 651–52
(1961)); The Supreme Court, 1982 Term, 97 Harv. L. Rev. 215, 219 n.37 (1983) (“The
Court’s assumption that suits for damages vindicate constitutional rights effectively
is questionable for several reasons. First, certain kinds of civil rights violations, such
as illegal searches, are almost never litigated, and they are even less likely to be
litigated if no possibility exists of obtaining an injunction. Second, a judgment in an
individual case that a particular practice is unconstitutional cannot be used by a
similarly situated plaintiff unless she files her own suit for damages. By comparison,
an injunction can be more quickly enforced through contempt proceedings. Third,
even if there were adequate incentive to litigate all constitutional infringements
through damage actions, and even if claims could be heard expeditiously, the typical
judgment in such actions would have little deterrent effect on the challenged
conduct.” (citations omitted)); Myriam E. Gilles, Reinventing Structural Reform
Litigation: Deputizing Private Citizens in the Enforcement of Civil Rights, 100 Colum.
L. Rev. 1384, 1399 (2000) (“Many scholars have made the point that damages
remedies have proven ineffective in deterring systemic police misconduct.” (collecting
scholarship)).

      252 See Jones v. State, 745 A.2d 856, 864 (Del. 1999) (the Delaware Constitution

“serves only to limit the sovereign power which inheres directly in the people and

                                           99
deprivation of a constitutional right.

      An individual who is convicted of a crime and sentenced can rely on the Cruel

Punishment Clause to challenge their sentence, whether on appeal, under Superior

Court Criminal Rule 35, or Superior Court Criminal Rule 61.253 Invocations of the

Cruel Punishment Clause have commonly taken those forms.254 Those avenues do not




indirectly in their elected representatives . . . . [T]he explicit affirmation of
fundamental rights in our Constitution can be seen as a guarantee of those rights and
not as a restriction upon them”).

      253 Rule 35(a) permits the court to “correct an illegal sentence at any time and

may correct a sentence imposed in an illegal manner within the time provided herein
for the reduction of sentence.” Super. Ct. Crim. R. 35(a). Rule 61 governs an
application by a person in custody to set aside a conviction or sentence of death. Id.
61.

      254 See, e.g., Burrell v. State, 207 A.3d 137 (Del. 2019) (challenging thirty-seven

year sentence for juvenile under Cruel Punishment Clause); Thomas v. State, 55 A.3d
839 (Del. 2012) (challenging twenty-five year sentence, which exceeded sentencing
guidelines, under Cruel Punishment Clause); Wallace v. State, 956 A.2d 630, 631
(Del. 2008) (challenging sentence of life without parole under Cruel Punishment
Clause); Dawson v. State, 673 A.2d 1186 (Del. 1996) (challenging death sentence
under Cruel Punishment Clause); State v. Deputy, 644 A.2d 411 (Del. Super.)
(challenging method of death sentence by lethal injection under Cruel Punishment
Clause), aff’d, 648 A.2d 423 (Del. 1994); Wright, 633 A.2d at 329 (challenging death
sentence under Cruel Punishment Clause); Sanders, 585 A.2d at 117 (seeking
reversal of criminal conviction and sentence, and challenging death sentence under
Cruel Punishment Clause); Ayers, 260 A.2d at 162 (challenging sentence under
statutory mandatory minimum under Cruel Punishment Clause); Cannon v. State,
196 A.2d 399, 400 (Del. 1963) (individual “filed a motion under Rule 35(a) for the
correction of an illegal sentence on the ground that the imposition of lashes as a
penalty for crime was cruel and thus prohibited by the Delaware Constitution and
the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution”); Cannon, 190 A.2d at 514
(challenging sentence carrying penalty of lashes under Cruel Punishment Clause);
State v. Desmond, 2024 WL 3456225 (Del. Super. July 16, 2024) (filing motion under
Rule 35(b) for the reduction of seventy-eight year sentence, challenging it under Cruel
Punishment Clause); State v. Jones, 2004 WL 2190097 (Del. Super. Aug. 31, 2004)

                                          100
provide a vehicle for challenging prison conditions. The state writ of habeas corpus is

not available for that purpose.255

      Because no remedial scheme exists, there is no risk of transgressing the

separation of powers. In this setting, a court can enforce the constitutional provision

if warranted.256

      6.     Addressing The Schueller Line Of Cases

      To defeat a private right of action, the Commissioner relies heavily on

Schueller and the cases that followed it. Those decisions do not foreclose recognizing

a private right of action for injunctive and declaratory relief. They are also not

persuasive on that point.

      Schueller cited a series of reasons for not recognizing a cause of action for




(challenging death sentence for juvenile under Cruel Punishment Clause); State v.
Archie, 2002 WL 1922466 (Del. Super. Aug. 12, 2002) (challenging forty-eight year
sentence under Cruel Punishment Clause).

      255 See Earl v. Emig, 349 A.3d 1151 (Del. 2025) (“[T]he writ of habeas corpus

under Delaware law provides relief on a very limited basis. Specifically, it provides
an opportunity for an illegally confined or incarcerated person to obtain judicial
review only of the jurisdiction of the court ordering the commitment. When the
commitment is regular on its face and the court has jurisdiction over the subject
matter, habeas corpus does not afford a remedy to the petitioner.” (quoting Hall v.
Carr, 692 A.2d 888, 891 (Del. 1997)) (alteration in original and internal quotation
marks omitted)).

      256 The prisoners may have rights of action under federal law. The question

here is whether the prisoners can sue as a matter of Delaware law, or whether other
aspects of Delaware law already provide an adequate remedy.

                                         101
money damages under Article I, Section 6 of the Delaware Constitution.257 Schueller

first held implicitly that the language of the constitutional provision did not support

a private right of action for damages.258 This decision has explained why the Cruel

Punishment Clause is self-executing and is enforceable for purposes of injunctive and

declaratory relief.

      Schueller next held implicitly that the constitutional provision did not

sufficiently define the contours of the requested private right of action259 and noted

the lack of any state statute resembling federal Section 1983 that could define the

scope and limits of the claim.260 But like a constitutional provision, Section 1983 is

broad and non-specific.261 Regardless, this decision has shown that Delaware courts




      257 See Del. Const. art. 1, §  6 (“The people shall be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and possessions, from unreasonable searches and seizures; and no
warrant to search any place, or to seize any person or thing, shall issue without
describing them as particularly as may be; nor then, unless there be probable cause
supported by oath or affirmation.”).

      258 Schueller, 2017 WL 568344, at *2 (noting that “Article I, Section 6 . . . does

not mention excessive force”).

      259Id. (observing that Article I, Section 6 “does not mention . . . the
requirements for bringing such a cause of action” and the claim would “lack defined
boundaries”).

      260 Id. (observing that “there is no state statute similar to section 1983 of the

Civil Rights Act that already exists to define the scope of this new cause of action and
its limits”).

      261 42 U.S.C. § 1983 (“Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance,

regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia,
subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person
within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or

                                          102
have permitted suits to enforce constitutional provisions, even when those provisions

established broad constitutional mandates. This decision has also shown that

Delaware decisions treat the Cruel Punishment Clause as having self-executing

content.

      Schueller ultimately declined to act based on separation of powers concerns.262

As this decision has shown, that reasoning approaches the problem from the wrong

perspective. The Delaware Supreme Court has made clear that a court has “no choice

but to use every means at [its] disposal to preserve those guarantees.” 263 The fact

that the legislature has not created an adequate remedy for a constitutional right

provides a reason for the court to act, not a reason for inaction. In addition to

enforcing the constitutional right, judicial action may prompt the legislature to




immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured
in an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress, except that
in any action brought against a judicial officer for an act or omission taken in such
officer’s judicial capacity, injunctive relief shall not be granted unless a declaratory
decree was violated or declaratory relief was unavailable. For the purposes of this
section, any Act of Congress applicable exclusively to the District of Columbia shall
be considered to be a statute of the District of Columbia.”). Nor was it inevitable that
Section 1983 would emerge as the principal federal vehicle for civil rights litigation.
Congress passed Section 1983 in 1871 as part of the Civil Rights Act to protect
freedmen from the Ku Klux Klan and corrupt state and local officials. The statute
largely lay dormant until 1961, when the Supreme Court of the United States held
that a party could sue a state official directly under Section 1983, even if the party
lacked a state remedy. See Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961), overruled on other
grounds by Monell, 436 U.S. 658.

      262 Schueller, 2017 WL 568344, at *2 (reasoning that “the Delaware State
Legislature is the entity best suited to create a new cause of action in this instance”).

      263 Rickards, 77 A.2d at 205.


                                          103
establish a constitutionally adequate statutory scheme.

      Schueller also held implicitly that there was no need for a private right of

action to enforce Article I, Section 6 because common law torts were available.264 As

this decision has explained, a common law damages action is not a substitute for

forward-looking injunctive relief enforcing a constitutional right.

      Implicitly weighing competing policy interests and resolving them against a

private right of action for money damages, Schueller cited the threat of potentially

ruinous liability.265 A suit for injunctive relief does not carry the same risks.

Moreover, the Delaware Constitution is the state’s supreme law. The Delaware

Constitution has already conducted the balancing and resolved it in favor of the

constitutional right.

      For purposes of the claims for injunctive and declaratory relief in this case,

Schueller is unpersuasive, as are the two Delaware state court cases that tracked its

analysis. Three Delaware District Court decisions that relied on Schueller to predict

that Delaware would reject any private right of action under the Cruel Punishment

Clause are similarly unpersuasive. Winter involved a request for damages and




      264 Schueller, 2017 WL 568344, at *2 (noting that the prisoner could pursue a

“common law tort action for battery or gross negligence, both of which allow Mr.
Schueller the opportunity to recover damages for the unlawful or excessive use of
force”).

      265 Id. (positing that a money damages claim under Article I, Section 6 “could

impose huge financial burdens on municipal, local, and state government entities”).

                                         104
tracked Schueller’s analysis almost verbatim.266 Two later decisions involved

requests for damages and injunctive relief, yet they did not distinguish between the

two. Both relied on Winter and the Delaware state court cases to hold that Delaware

would not recognize any private right of action under the Cruel Punishment

Clause.267 For purposes of a suit seeking injunctive and declaratory relief, this

decision cannot agree.

                               V.     CONCLUSION

      The plaintiffs have standing to seek injunctive relief. Their request for a

declaratory judgment is ripe. A private right of action exists under the Cruel

Punishment Clause that can support injunctive or declaratory relief. The

Department’s requests for dismissal on the basis of those arguments are denied.




      266 See Winter v. Richman, 2020 WL 6940760, at *2 (D. Del. Nov. 25, 2020)

(involving requests for damages, declaratory, and injunctive relief).

      267 See Rogers v. Mears, 2025 WL 3199161, at *7–8 (D. Del. Nov. 17, 2025)

(involving requests for damages, declaratory, and injunctive relief); Evans v.
Dematteis, 2024 WL 1885554, at *11 (D. Del. Apr. 30, 2024) (involving requests for
damages and injunctive relief).

                                         105
