24-3205
Mutual Fund Opt-Out Plaintiffs v. Calamari




                                In the
                    United States Court of Appeals
                        For the Second Circuit

                                        August Term, 2025

                   (Argued: December 5, 2025                 Decided: July 9, 2026)

                                        Docket No. 24-3205



                              MUTUAL FUND OPT-OUT PLAINTIFFS,

                                        Movant-Appellants,

                             INFINITY Q DIVERSIFIED ALPHA FUND,

                                             Defendant,

                                                 –v.–

                                     ANDREW M. CALAMARI,

                                      Special Master-Appellee,

                   UNITED STATES SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION,

                                              Plaintiff. *


*   The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the caption as reflected above.
Before:      ROBINSON, MERRIAM, and KAHN, Circuit Judges.

      This case requires us to consider the reach of the Anti-Injunction Act,
28 U.S.C. § 2283, and the so-called “in aid of jurisdiction” exception to its
prohibition of federal court injunctions against state court actions.

       Movant-Appellants Mutual Fund Opt-Out Plaintiffs (“the Opt-Out
Plaintiffs”) appeal from an order of the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York (Castel, J.) permanently enjoining their
claims in state court against Quasar Distributors, LLC, (“Quasar”) arising
from the collapse of a mutual fund for which Quasar served as underwriter.

       This action was initiated by the SEC against a series mutual fund
(“Mutual Fund”) of the Trust for Advised Portfolios (“TAP”) after the
Mutual Fund’s collapse; the district court appointed a Special Master to
oversee the distribution of the remnants of the Mutual Fund—known as the
“Special Reserve.” Quasar is not a party to this federal court action, but the
district court enjoined the state actions against it. The district court reasoned
that an injunction was necessary in aid of its jurisdiction because state court
actions against Quasar created potential and actual legal obligations by
TAP, as indemnitor, that the Special Master would be required to pay
through the Special Reserve. These indemnification obligations threatened
to dissipate the remaining assets in the Special Reserve and undermined the
Special Master’s goal of distributing the remaining assets of the fund pro rata
to defrauded shareholders—which included the Opt-Out Plaintiffs and
those who had previously received compensation and released their claims
against the Mutual Fund in a class action settlement approved in state court.

       The Opt-Out Plaintiffs argue that the injunction is proscribed by the
Anti-Injunction Act because it is not “necessary in aid of [the district court’s]
jurisdiction.” 28 U.S.C. § 2283.

       We agree. The “in aid of jurisdiction” exception to the Anti-Injunction
Act is generally reserved for a state court action that involves possession or
control of a thing like a pool of money. Potential judgments against persons
arising from state court in personam actions do not interfere with a federal
court’s in rem jurisdiction over property. Wyly v. Weiss, 697 F.3d 131, 137–
                                    2
       38 (2d Cir. 2012). That’s the case here. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court
       actions do not threaten the federal court’s jurisdiction over the Special
       Reserve. And the narrow exception to this general rule that we recognized
       in In re Baldwin-United Corp., 770 F.2d 328 (2d Cir. 1985), does not apply on
       these facts. We thus VACATE the injunction and REMAND for further
       proceedings consistent with this opinion.




                                   LAWRENCE M. ROLNICK (Michael James Hampson,
                                   on the brief), Rolnick Kramer Sadighi LLP, New
                                   York, NY, for Movant-Appellants. †

                                   DANIEL SCOTT NOBLE, KKL LLP, New York, NY
                                   (Benjamin Arrow & Eliyahu Yampel, Finn Dixon &
                                   Herling LLP, Stamford, CT, on the brief), for Special
                                   Master-Appellee.



ROBINSON, Circuit Judge:

       This case requires us to consider the reach of the Anti-Injunction Act, 28

U.S.C. § 2283, and the “in aid of jurisdiction” exception to the prohibition of federal

court injunctions against state court actions.

       Movant-Appellants Mutual Fund Opt-Out Plaintiffs (“the Opt-Out

Plaintiffs”) appeal from an order of the United States District Court for the

Southern District of New York (Castel, J.) permanently enjoining their claims in


†After briefing and oral argument were complete, this firm changed its name to Rolnick Kramer
Securities Litigation LLP.




                                             3
state court against Quasar Distributors LLC, (“Quasar”) arising from the collapse

of a mutual fund for which Quasar served as underwriter.

         This action was initiated by the Securities and Exchange Commission

(“SEC”) against Infinity Q Diversified Alpha Fund (the “Mutual Fund” or the

“Fund”), a series mutual fund of the Trust for Advised Portfolios (“TAP”) after the

Mutual Fund’s collapse; the district court appointed a Special Master to oversee

the distribution of the remnants of the Mutual Fund—known as the “Special

Reserve.” Quasar is not a party to this federal court action, but the district court

enjoined the state actions against it. The district court reasoned that the injunction

was necessary in aid of its jurisdiction because state court actions against Quasar

created potential and actual legal obligations by TAP, as indemnitor, that the

Special Master would be required to pay through the Special Reserve. These

indemnification obligations threatened to dissipate the remaining assets in the

Special Reserve and undermined the Special Master’s goal of distributing the

remaining assets of the fund pro rata to defrauded shareholders—both the Opt-

Out Plaintiffs and those who had previously received compensation and released

their claims against the Mutual Fund in a class action settlement approved in state

court.




                                          4
       The Opt-Out Plaintiffs argue that the injunction is proscribed by the Anti-

Injunction Act because it is not “necessary in aid of [the district court’s]

jurisdiction.” 28 U.S.C. § 2283.

       We agree. The “in aid of jurisdiction” exception to the Anti-Injunction Act

is generally reserved for a state court action that involves possession or control of

a thing like a pool of money. Potential judgments against persons arising from

state court in personam actions do not interfere with a federal court’s in rem

jurisdiction over property. Wyly v. Weiss, 697 F.3d 131, 137–38 (2d Cir. 2012).

That’s the case here. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court actions do not threaten the

federal court’s jurisdiction over the Special Reserve. And the narrow exception to

this general rule that we recognized in In re Baldwin-United Corp., 770 F.2d 328 (2d

Cir. 1985), does not apply in these facts.

       For the reasons set forth more fully below, we thus VACATE the injunction

and REMAND for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

                                    BACKGROUND

       This case involves the fallout from the collapse of the Mutual Fund, a series

mutual fund of TAP. 1 For several years, James Velissaris, the chief investment


1For purposes of this background discussion, we rely primarily on the facts as alleged in the
SEC’s complaint in the district court. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs do not contest this account.



                                             5
officer of Infinity Q Capital Management, LLC, (“IQCM”) who served as the

Mutual Fund’s investment adviser, artificially inflated the net asset values of the

Mutual Fund’s underlying holdings. As a result, investors bought and sold their

holdings at materially inflated values.

      When this situation came to light in February 2021, IQCM and TAP

requested that the SEC intervene pursuant to its authority under section 22(e)(3)

of the Investment Company Act of 1940. In response, the SEC ordered the Mutual

Fund to suspend redemptions and to liquidate its holdings. Liquidation yielded

$1.25 billion, representing about a $500 million shortfall from the most recently

reported net asset value.

      Under the SEC’s supervision, from December 2021 through February 2022

the Mutual Fund made an interim distribution of $500 million to the Fund’s

current shareholders. The remaining assets were put into a Special Reserve “of

approximately $750 million to cover the Fund’s current and future expenses and

potential liabilities including for class action lawsuits pending in state and federal

courts against the Fund, as well as legal fees and potential indemnification claims

against the Fund.” App’x 32. After consultation with the SEC, the Mutual Fund

reduced the Special Reserve soon thereafter by distributing another $170 million




                                          6
to shareholders.    TAP’s Board of Trustees also created a Special Litigation

Committee to investigate any claims the Mutual Fund might be able to pursue.

      In the meantime, a wave of litigation by injured investors followed the

collapse of the Mutual Fund. Beginning in December 2021, TAP and the Fund

participated in mediation of several state and federal class action suits,

culminating in a proposed class action settlement in New York state court. The

proposed settlement, filed in the New York state court in September 2022,

provided for the establishment of a cash settlement fund of up to $48 million and

for the release of claims against TAP, the Mutual Fund, and IQCM, along with the

Mutual Fund’s auditor, EisnerAmper LLP (“EisnerAmper”); its underwriter,

Quasar; and its administrator, accountant and custodian, U.S. Bancorp Fund

Services, LLC (“Bancorp”). The settlement was funded through contributions

from the various defendants; funding for the settlement was not drawn from the

Special Reserve.

      When the proposed settlement was still pending in state court, in November

2022, the SEC filed this federal action against the Mutual Fund. In January 2023,

by consent of the SEC and the Mutual Fund, the district court entered an order

with three key components. First, the order provided that the district court has

“exclusive jurisdiction over the Special Reserve and over all matters arising out of,


                                         7
and related to, the Special Reserve.” App’x 34. Second, it appointed Appellee

Andrew Calamari as Special Master to manage the Special Reserve, implement the

plan of distribution to shareholders, and pay from the Special Reserve any

expenses and liabilities of the Mutual Fund, among other duties. Third, it stayed

litigation of all “Ancillary Proceedings,” as defined by the order. Id. at 41–42. The

order excluded from the litigation stay the mediated class actions discussed above,

any enforcement actions by the SEC or the federal government, any litigation by

the Special Litigation Committee on behalf of the Mutual Fund, and other

enumerated actions.

      In the meantime, in December 2022, also while the state court settlement

proposal was pending, investors who chose to opt out of the settlement, known as

the “Opt-Out Plaintiffs”—Appellants here—sent their opt-out notices to the

settlement administrator and then filed their own state court actions seeking

damages for violations of the Securities Act against the Mutual Fund and its

officers, as well as IQCM, Bancorp, EisnerAmper and Quasar, in New York state

court. See Glenmede Trust Co., N.A. v. Infinity Q Capital Management LLC, No.

160830/2022 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. Comm’l Div. filed Dec. 19, 2022); Carson Family 2013

Dynasty Trust v. Infinity Q Capital Management LLC, No. 160834/2022 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.

Comm’l Div. filed Dec. 19, 2022); Flint Hills Diversified Strategies, L.P. v. Infinity Q


                                           8
Capital Management LLC, No. 160964/2022 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. Comm’l Div. filed Dec. 20,

2022). 2

       In response, various defendants in the state court actions invoked the

litigation stay set forth in the district court’s consent order in this case to try to halt

the state court actions. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs then moved to intervene in the

federal action, arguing that the stay should be modified to allow their suits to

proceed. The SEC and the Special Master negotiated with the Opt-Out Plaintiffs

for an amended litigation stay, which was entered by the district court in March

2023. The amended order allowed the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court actions to

proceed against IQCM, EisnerAmper, Bancorp, and Quasar, but not against the

Mutual Fund and its officers. In turn, the Opt-Out Plaintiffs withdrew their

motion to intervene in this action. The amended order preserved the rights of the

SEC, Special Master, and Opt-Out Plaintiffs to move to modify the stay of litigation

for good cause.

       Later that year, the New York state court gave final approval to the

$48 million mediated settlement in the class action against various defendants. In


2The Glenmede Trust action is the lead state court Opt-Out case, and the state court ordered that
all filings and rulings of the court with respect to that case apply equally to the other two Opt-
Out cases. Accordingly, in our discussion we do not distinguish among the several Opt-Out
Plaintiffs’ state court actions, and we instead refer generally to the Opt-Out Plaintiffs.



                                                9
re Infinity Q. Diversified Alpha Fund Securities Litigation, No. 651295/2021, 2023 WL

8846591, at *9 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. Dec. 21, 2023). The settlement fund, held in an escrow

account, was in that state court’s custody and subject to its jurisdiction until

distribution. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs were not entitled to and did not receive any

distribution from this settlement.

      Because this settlement “fully resolved” the mediated class actions “without

the contribution of any money from the Special Reserve and substantially reduced

the litigation exposure faced by the Fund and its Indemnitees,” Dist. Ct. Dkt. No.

89 at 1–2, the Special Master in this case—with approval from the federal district

court—distributed an additional $487 million of Special Reserve funds to

shareholders. That left about $100 million in the Special Reserve for payment of

legal costs and judgments against the Mutual Fund and its indemnitees.

      As relevant here, the potential liability to indemnitees arose from TAP’s

contractual indemnification obligations to Quasar in connection with duties

performed by Quasar for the Mutual Fund. Under TAP’s agreement with Quasar,

it is obligated to indemnify Quasar for claims arising from, among other things,

TAP’s “bad faith, negligence, or willful misconduct” in performance of its duties

or any allegedly untrue statements in TAP’s reports to shareholders, unless the

claim arises from statements made in reliance on written communications


                                         10
provided by Quasar. App’x 141. Importantly, the agreement provides broadly

that TAP “shall advance attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred” by Quasar

in defending any “suit which is the subject of a claim for indemnification.” Id. at

142 (emphasis added).

      As a result of TAP’s contractual advancement obligation, the Special Master

paid monies from the Special Reserve for Quasar’s legal defense in the Opt-Out

Plaintiffs’ state court actions. By May 2024 the Special Master had paid more than

$425,000 from the Special Reserve for that purpose.              In this context, the

compromise allowing the Opt-Out Plaintiffs to pursue their state court claims

against the Fund’s various indemnitees didn’t last. In a court-approved May 2024

agreement citing a need “to prevent the dissipation of the Special Reserve as a

result of legal fees and costs that the [Mutual] Fund is obligated to continue to pay

on behalf of certain Indemnitees in connection with the Opt-Out Actions,” the Opt-

Out Plaintiffs agreed to extend the litigation stay to their state court actions against

Quasar “until 7 days after written notice . . . by the Opt-Out Plaintiffs,” which was

not to be given before July 9, 2024. Id. at 123. The Agreement preserved the Opt-

Out Plaintiffs’ right to challenge the district court’s authority to stay their state

court actions.




                                          11
      The Opt-Out Plaintiffs gave notice of the expiration of the stay on July 10,

2024, prompting the Special Master to seek an order permanently enjoining all

current and future lawsuits against the Mutual Fund’s indemnitees, specifically

Quasar. The Special Master argued that because the Fund has an obligation to

advance Quasar’s legal fees, and potentially to indemnify Quasar for any

judgment, the ongoing state court litigation against Quasar would lead to a

depletion of the Special Reserve. That depletion would interfere with the Special

Master’s proposal, subject to the court’s approval, to distribute as much money as

possible to all of the defrauded shareholders on a pro rata basis.

      After briefing by the parties, in November 2024, the district court granted

the Special Master’s request and permanently enjoined the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’

state court claims against the Fund, the Special Master, TAP and Quasar. The court

concluded that this injunction was authorized by the All Writs Act, 28 U.S.C.

§ 1651, because it was “necessary” to (1) “protect the [c]ourt’s exclusive

jurisdiction over the limited res”—the Special Reserve; (2) “prevent the dissipation

of the Fund’s remaining assets due to the Fund’s advancement and

indemnification obligations”; and (3) “achieve a pro rata distribution” of those

“remaining assets to defrauded shareholders that is fair and equitable to all

shareholders.” Special App’x 1.


                                         12
      By request of the Special Master, the injunction carves out any counterclaims

by EisnerAmper against TAP, on behalf of the Fund, in TAP’s ongoing state court

action against EisnerAmper for its alleged role in the Fund’s collapse. In addition,

the injunction does not apply to the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court claims against

EisnerAmper and Bancorp. TAP determined that it does not have an obligation to

indemnify EisnerAmper or Bancorp and is seeking to enforce a contractual

indemnification provision against Bancorp for losses flowing from Bancorp’s

negligence.

      In this appeal of the permanent injunction, the Opt-Out Plaintiffs challenge

only that aspect of the district court’s injunction that prohibits them from pursuing

their state court securities law claims against Quasar.

                                  DISCUSSION

      I.      The Parties’ Arguments

      On appeal, and as relevant here, the Opt-Out Plaintiffs argue primarily that

the injunction violates the Anti-Injunction Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2283. They contend that

the injunction does not fit within the narrow “in aid of jurisdiction” exception to

the general prohibition against federal court injunctions of state court actions

because no conflict of federal and state in rem jurisdiction exists. They contend

that this federal litigation is “an in personam action against the Mutual Fund,” and


                                         13
that the district court’s authority over the Special Reserve “does not transform the

nature of the [district c]ourt’s jurisdiction.” Appellants’ Br. at 34. They contrast

this circumstance with bankruptcy or receivership proceedings in which there is a

statutory basis for in rem jurisdiction over a collection of assets. Id. at 35.

      The Opt-Out Plaintiffs contend that even if the district court does have in

rem jurisdiction over the Special Reserve, the injunction is improper because their

state court securities lawsuits are indisputably in personam actions seeking to

establish the various defendants’ liability under the Securities Act, which cannot

threaten the district court’s control over the Special Reserve itself. And they argue

that the injunction doesn’t fall within the narrow exception to the general bar on

federal courts enjoining state in personam actions that this Court carved out in In re

Baldwin-United Corp., 770 F.2d 328 (2d Cir. 1985).

      Moreover, the Opt-Out Plaintiffs argue that even if there were a potential in

rem jurisdictional conflict, the record does not establish that the injunction is

“necessary” to aid the court’s jurisdiction because it doesn’t establish that Quasar’s

indemnity claim against TAP would be viable and collectible from the Special

Reserve.    And the Opt-Out Plaintiffs emphasize that the untenable logical

consequence of the Special Master’s position is that “any insolvency

proceeding[]—whether in bankruptcy or receivership—justifies sweeping


                                           14
injunctions of claims against non-debtors so long as [the non-debtors] have claims

for indemnity against the debtor.” Appellants’ Br. at 22 (emphasis added). 3

       In response, the Special Master argues that the injunction falls under the

district court’s broad authority to protect its exclusive jurisdiction over a limited

“res,” the Special Reserve, and to effectuate a distribution plan without competing

claims or further dissipation of the Fund’s remaining assets. According to the

Special Master, the decisive factor under Baldwin-United isn’t whether an action is

in rem or in personam, “but rather whether there is a practical need” to prevent the

state court from interfering with the federal court’s exercise of jurisdiction over a

res. Appellee’s Br. at 41. Such a need exists here, the Special Master contends,

because further litigation of the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court claims would force

TAP to draw against the Special Reserve to advance money to Quasar, its

indemnitee, for its legal fees in that suit, undermining the Special Master’s goal of

distributing those remaining assets equitably to shareholders.


3The Opt-Out Plaintiffs also argue that cutting off claims against Quasar on the ground that it is
a potential indemnitee of TAP would run afoul of the remedial scheme of the Securities Act,
which imposes joint and several liability on statutory defendants, including underwriters, to
protect plaintiffs from the risk that any one defendant becomes insolvent. See 15 U.S.C.
§§ 77k(a)(2)–(5), (f)(1). They further contend that the injunction violates their due process rights
by rendering their right to opt out of the class settlement illusory with respect to defendants
against whom their claims are now enjoined. And they argue that the injunction is impermissibly
vague and unsupported by factual findings. The Special Master disagrees. Because we resolve
this appeal on the basis of the Anti-Injunction Act, we do not reach these arguments.



                                                15
      II.      Analysis

      We review the district court’s issuance of an injunction for abuse of

discretion, its factual findings for clear error, and its interpretation of the All Writs

Act and the Anti-Injunction Act, along with other questions of law, without

deference. Wyly v. Weiss, 697 F.3d 131, 137 (2d Cir. 2012); see also Retirement Systems

of Alabama v. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., 386 F.3d 419, 425 (2d Cir. 2004).

      Considering the Anti-Injunction Act and precedential decisions applying

that statute, we conclude that the Anti-Injunction Act does not authorize the

district court’s injunction against the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state law claims against

Quasar. We start with the legal lay of the land before considering the application

of the Anti-Injunction Act here.

            A. The All Writs Act, the Anti-Injunction Act, and In Personam State Court
               Actions

      The All Writs Act grants federal courts broad authority to “issue all writs

necessary or appropriate in aid of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to

the usages and principles of law.” 28 U.S.C. § 1651(a). The Anti-Injunction Act

limits that authority by providing that a federal court “may not grant an injunction

to stay proceedings in a State court except as expressly authorized by Act of




                                           16
Congress, or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate

its judgments.” 28 U.S.C. § 2283.

       The Anti-Injunction Act, originally enacted in 1793, reflects “the essentially

federal nature of our national government”: we have a “dual court system” in

which state and federal legal systems “proceed[] independently of the other with

ultimate review in [the Supreme] Court of the federal questions raised in either

system.” Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company v. Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers,

398 U.S. 281, 285–86 (1970). 4 Congress recognized that “this dual system could not

function if state and federal courts were free to fight each other for control of a

particular case.” Id. at 286.

       To prevent “needless friction” and “make the dual system work,” the Anti-

Injunction Act sets “lines of demarcation” between state courts and lower federal

courts. Id. Thus, the Anti-Injunction Act “in part rests on the fundamental

constitutional independence of the States and their courts,” and embodies the

principle that “[p]roceedings in state courts should normally be allowed to

continue unimpaired by intervention of the lower federal courts, with relief from


4 In quotations from caselaw, this opinion omits all internal quotation marks, footnotes, and
citations, and accepts all alterations, unless otherwise noted.




                                             17
error, if any, through the state appellate courts and ultimately [the Supreme]

Court.” Id. at 287.

      For those reasons, we construe the exceptions to the Anti-Injunction Act’s

limit on federal injunctions of state court proceedings narrowly. Id.; see Smith v.

Bayer Corp., 564 U.S. 299, 306 (2011) (stating that the “three specifically defined

exceptions . . . are narrow”).   “Any doubts as to the propriety of a federal

injunction against state court proceedings should be resolved in favor of

permitting the state courts to proceed in an orderly fashion to finally determine

the controversy.” Atlantic Coast Line, 398 U.S. at 297.

      Here, we consider the scope of the “in aid of [] jurisdiction” exception to the

Act. 28 U.S.C. § 2283. That exception “is generally reserved for state court actions

in rem.” Wyly, 697 F.3d at 137. An in rem action seeks to determine “the status of

a thing, and therefore the rights of persons generally with respect to that thing.”

In Rem, BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY (12th ed. 2024). The “thing” is also known as a

“res.” Retirement Systems, 386 F.3d at 426. A res may be a physical object or a pool

of money. Where a federal court acquires in rem jurisdiction first, it can enjoin a

state in rem proceeding regarding the same res because “exercise by the state court

of jurisdiction over the same res necessarily impairs, and may defeat, the




                                         18
jurisdiction of the federal court already attached.” Kline v. Burke Construction Co.,

260 U.S. 226, 229 (1922).

      That rule generally does not extend to a parallel in personam proceeding in

state court. An in personam action seeks to determine “the personal rights and

obligations of the parties.” In Personam, BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY (12th ed. 2024);

see also id. (“[T]he effect of a judgment in [an in personam] action is merely to bind

the parties to it.”); see Wyly, 697 F.3d at 138 (noting that “an in personam action

involves a controversy over liability rather than over possession of a thing”).

Because personal liability “does not involve the possession or control of a thing,”

a state court action to “enforce [it] does not tend to impair or defeat the jurisdiction

of the court in which a prior action for the same cause is pending.” Kline, 260 U.S.

at 230. For that reason, since its decision in Kline, “the Supreme Court has never

held that a district court may enjoin, as necessary in aid of [its] jurisdiction, a

parallel in personam state action.” Retirement Systems, 386 F.3d at 426.

      However, this Court has recognized that an injunction against a state in

personam proceeding may be necessary in aid of the federal court’s jurisdiction in

certain “exceptional circumstances.” United States v. Schurkman, 728 F.3d 129, 137

(2d Cir. 2013).    In the one hundred years since Kline, we have identified




                                          19
circumstances that justify such an injunction in only one case: In re Baldwin-United

Corp., 770 F.2d 328 (2d Cir. 1985).

      There, over 100 federal securities suits were consolidated into a multidistrict

class action against broker-dealers. Id. at 331. Of the 100,000 members of the

plaintiff class, fewer than 400 “chose to opt out of the action.” Id. at 332. The

district court coordinated settlement talks for two years. Id. After the parties

reached a settlement agreement as to 18 of the 26 defendants, the representatives

of 40 states determined that the proposed resolution did not provide adequate

compensation to plaintiffs. Id. Authorities in numerous states began issuing

subpoenas to defendants, aiming to enforce state laws that authorized restitution

and then to use any monetary recovery to pay additional compensation to class

action plaintiffs residing in their respective states. Id. at 332–33. The possibility of

such suits threatened to undo the district court’s almost consummated settlement

efforts—both as to the 18 cases that had already settled and were awaiting final

approval and the eight that were likely to settle in the near future.

      Faced with this prospect, the district court temporarily enjoined the

commencement of any action against defendants in the multidistrict litigation “on

behalf of or derivative of the rights of any plaintiff” or that “may in any way affect

the rights of any plaintiff.” Id. at 334. The court provided that the injunction


                                          20
would continue in effect until the entry of final judgment in all of the federal

multidistrict proceedings. Id.

      On appeal, this Court affirmed the injunction as “necessary or appropriate

in aid of” the district court’s jurisdiction under the All Writs Act. Id. at 338. We

acknowledged the general rule that the All Writs Act does not support injunctions

against state in personam actions but concluded that “the district court had before

it a class action proceeding so far advanced that it was the virtual equivalent of a

res over which the district judge required full control.” Id. at 337. We noted that

once the 18 settlements were approved by the district court, the court

unquestionably could have entered an order to “forestall[] relitigation of those

judgments.” Id. at 336. We also explained that the injunction was based at least in

part on the district court’s “conviction that the state actions were improperly being

brought for harassing and vexatious purposes” to “coerc[e] the defendants to pay

more funds into the federal settlement pool.” Id. at 339. Thus, “our interest in

preserving federalism and comity with the state courts [was] not significantly

disturbed” by the injunction. Id. at 337.

      Since Baldwin-United, we have cautioned repeatedly against reading its

exception too broadly and have declined to extend its holding to novel

circumstances. In Retirement Systems of Alabama v. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., we


                                            21
clarified that Baldwin-United “did not create a blanket rule or presumption” that a

federal court managing complex litigation “may enjoin parallel state

proceedings.” 386 F.3d at 427. There, a federal court presiding over a securities

class action arising from the collapse of a major company ordered an Alabama

state court to postpone trial of a pending case by opt-out plaintiffs until the federal

trial was complete. Id. at 421–23. We noted that unlike in Baldwin-United, no

“prompt settlement” was impending. Id. at 428. Applying “the Kline rule that in

personam proceedings in state court cannot be enjoined merely because they are

duplicative of actions” in federal court, id., we vacated the injunction, id. at 430–

31.

      In Wyly v. Weiss, we reaffirmed that the “in aid of jurisdiction” exception to

the prohibition of federal injunctions against state proceedings generally applies

only to state court actions in rem because the state court’s exercise of jurisdiction

may defeat the federal court’s jurisdiction over a res. 697 F.3d 131. There, after the

federal court approved a securities class action settlement, the plaintiffs learned

that the defendants had improperly withheld documents. Id. at 135. When the

federal court denied class members relief from the settlement order, plaintiff Wyly

sued class counsel in state court for legal malpractice. Id. at 136. Invoking both

the “in aid of jurisdiction” exception and the relitigation exception to the Anti-


                                          22
Injunction Act, the federal district court enjoined the state malpractice action to

protect its own determination that class counsel had provided adequate

representation and was entitled to fees. Id. at 136–37.

      On appeal, we rejected class counsel’s arguments that the Baldwin-United

exception applied because the federal court had overseen the “complex, large-

scale proceedings” for years and had “expressly retained exclusive jurisdiction”

over the parties “for all matters relating to the Class Action.” Id. at 139. As in

Retirement Systems, we cautioned that “involvement in complex litigation” is not

enough to justify “issuance of an injunction ‘in aid of’ the court’s jurisdiction.” Id.

We upheld the injunction only because it was independently justified by the

relitigation exception. Id. at 144.

      And in United States v. Schurkman, we explained that the Baldwin-United

exception “relied on the exceptional circumstances of that case—the case’s

extraordinary complexity and multidistrict nature, the fact that 18 of the 26

defendants had already settled, and the fact that there was a substantially

significant prospect that the remaining 8 defendants would settle in the reasonably

near future.” 728 F.3d at 137–38. In Schurkman, the federal court presided over an

environmental enforcement action that was settled by a consent decree that

provided that the appraised value of a parcel of land owned by the defendant


                                          23
would be unreviewable.       Id. at 131–33.   After the defendant unsuccessfully

challenged the appraised value in federal court, he sued the appraiser in state court

for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. Id. at 131. The federal district court

permanently enjoined that state court proceeding. Id. at 131, 134, 138 n.4.

      Because the case was “easily distinguished” from Baldwin-United, we

“decline[d] to extend” the exception “beyond the exceptional circumstances of that

case.” Id. at 138. We noted that Baldwin-United involved a temporary injunction

set “to expire upon entry of final judgment in all of the multidistrict proceedings

in federal court, thus posing less of a risk to fundamental constitutional

independence of the States and their courts.” Id. at 138 n.4. “By contrast, the

injunction in [Schurkman], if permitted to stand, would be permanent in nature,

and would seriously undercut principles of comity.” Id.

      In sum, since Baldwin-United, we have consistently adhered to the Supreme

Court’s reasoning in Kline and have limited the potential extension of “in aid of

jurisdiction” injunctions against in personam state court actions to the specific and

narrow facts that led us to depart from the general rule in Baldwin-United.

         B. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ State Court Actions Against Quasar

      With the above caselaw in mind, we evaluate whether the district court’s

injunction runs afoul of the Anti-Injunction Act. In determining the question, we


                                         24
need not decide whether this federal action is in personam, in rem, or quasi in rem,

because our analysis turns on the nature of Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court actions,

not the label assigned to the federal district court’s oversight of the Special

Reserve. We assume without deciding that the federal court has properly asserted

exclusive jurisdiction over the Special Reserve, whatever label applies, for the

purpose of overseeing distribution of the remaining assets of the Mutual Fund.

      The question then is whether, under the Anti-Injunction Act, the district

court, to protect its exclusive jurisdiction over the Special Reserve, can enjoin the

state in personam proceedings by the Opt-Out Plaintiffs against non-party Quasar

on the basis that Quasar, as an indemnitee of TAP, may have contractual claims

against TAP that might be satisfied through the Special Reserve. Pursuant to the

caselaw set forth above, the answer is clearly no. We conclude that the Opt-Out

Plaintiffs’ state court actions fall in the heartland of state court in personam actions

that cannot be enjoined under the Anti-Injunction Act. Any attempt to analogize

this case to Baldwin-United fails.

               i.   Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ State Claims Are Run Of The Mill In
                    Personam Claims

      The Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ enjoined state court claims are undisputedly in

personam: they seek to adjudicate the personal liability of Quasar under the



                                          25
Securities Act. A judgment for the Opt-Out Plaintiffs against Quasar in state court

would not involve “exercise by the state court of jurisdiction over the same res”—

that is, over the Special Reserve. Kline, 260 U.S. at 229. Nor would it “necessarily

impair[]” or “defeat” the federal court’s jurisdiction over that pool of money. Id.

By the terms of the federal district court’s operative consent order, the Special

Master, under the supervision of the SEC and subject to the court’s exclusive

jurisdiction, has power to oversee distribution of the Special Reserve. A state court

judgment for Opt-Out Plaintiffs against non-party Quasar wouldn’t change that.

“The adjudication of rights in personam simply does not impede the possession or

control of the property required for maintenance of an in rem action . . . even when

property is within the possession and exclusive jurisdiction of one court.” Leopard

Marine & Trading, Ltd. v. Easy St. Ltd., 896 F.3d 174, 192–93 (2d Cir. 2018). Thus,

any judgment against Quasar in the state court action would not “impede” the

federal court’s “possession and control of the funds themselves.” Id. at 193. It’s a

completely distinct case.

      The fact that TAP may have a contractual obligation to indemnify Quasar

against a future judgment in a later potential suit doesn’t alter the analysis. TAP’s

potential contractual obligations to Quasar are foundational to the Special

Master’s rationale for seeking to cut off the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court claims.


                                         26
But Quasar’s potential contract claims against TAP are themselves in personam

claims. See In Personam, BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY (12th ed. 2024) (“A normal

action brought by one person against another for breach of contract is a common

example of an action in personam.”). That is, Quasar does not have any legal right

to the Special Reserve as such. Any legal claims it may have are against TAP; the

Special Reserve is simply the pool of money from which TAP may satisfy its

obligations to Quasar.

      If Quasar secured a state court judgment against TAP and then initiated a

state court collection action seeking to attach funds in the Special Reserve to satisfy

its judgment, then the state court action would raise a closer question. But the fact

that a judgment for the Opt-Out Plaintiffs in their state court action against Quasar

may trigger contractual obligations by TAP to Quasar, which the Special Master

may opt to satisfy from the Special Reserve, does not convert the Opt-Out

Plaintiffs’ in personam actions against non-party Quasar into challenges to the

district court’s jurisdiction over the Special Reserve.

      The same goes for TAP’s contractual obligation to advance fees to Quasar,

which the Special Master identifies as a present threat to the federal court’s

jurisdiction over the Special Reserve. Like its potential claim for indemnification,

Quasar’s claim for advancement of fees from TAP is a contractual claim. It’s not a


                                          27
claim of ownership of a portion of the Special Reserve. And the fact that Quasar

has a contractual advancement right against TAP that is currently being satisfied

through the Special Reserve, and may continue to be, does not give the district

court a basis for enjoining the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ suits against Quasar, effectively

extinguishing their claims.

              ii.   Baldwin-United

       So the injunction can only stand if it falls within the narrow Baldwin-United

exception to the general prohibition on federal court injunctions against state court

in personam actions. We conclude that it does not.

       Remember, Baldwin-United addressed extraordinary circumstances. The

district court was in the process of reviewing provisionally approved settlement

agreements in a massive, multidistrict action, and a number of other settlements

were expected shortly; once the court finally approved those agreements, it would

clearly have the authority to enjoin state actions seeking to relitigate the

judgments; and the court viewed the preliminary steps toward such state actions

as “vexatious” attempts to undermine the settlements. Baldwin-United, 770 F.2d at

339.

       This case is not remotely similar. First and foremost, as set forth above, in

contrast to Baldwin-United, the state court actions at issue here—against non-


                                         28
parties to this action—have no impact on the district court’s jurisdiction and

authority over the Special Reserve.

      Moreover, the injunction in Baldwin-United protected a federal class action

on the verge of settlement against state court proceedings that would upend the

nearly completed settlement. Here, a state court settlement of a class action has

already been approved and the money allocated for payout; the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’

claims in no way threaten that resolution. Indeed, the injunction here seeks to cut

off the claims of those who haven’t gotten compensation from the consummated

settlement in favor of additional distribution by the Special Master of the

remaining Fund assets to all investors, most of whom already received payments

from a separate settlement fund and accordingly released their claims against the

defendants.

      And the court in Baldwin-United did not permanently enjoin state court

actions; it hit the pause button pending its entry of final judgment in the

multidistrict litigation. 770 F.2d at 334. The district court’s permanent injunction

here would forever cut off the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ claims—claims the Opt-Out

Plaintiffs preserved by forgoing the benefits of the class action settlement. As we

explained in Schurkman, a permanent injunction poses greater “risk to [the]

fundamental constitutional independence” of state courts and “seriously


                                        29
undercut[s] principles of comity” that animate the Anti-Injunction Act. 728 F.3d

at 138 n.4.

      Also, in contrast to Baldwin-United, there is no reason in this case to believe

that the Opt-Out Plaintiffs are using the state court actions “for harassing and

vexatious purposes.” 770 F.2d at 339. The Opt-Out Plaintiffs are not using their

state court claims as a negotiation lever to drive up their recovery in the class

action settlement; instead, they are suing to vindicate the very claims they

preserved by opting out.

      Finally, although this consideration is not essential to our resolution, we

note that the Anti-Injunction Act did not apply in Baldwin-United because the

federal injunction issued before suits commenced in state court. Id. at 335. Baldwin-

United considered only whether the injunction was “necessary or appropriate in

aid of” the district court’s jurisdiction under the All Writs Act. 28 U.S.C. § 1651(a)

(emphasis added). This case, by contrast, squarely implicates the Anti-Injunction

Act’s prohibition of federal court injunctions against state court proceedings, and

its limited exception for injunctions necessary in aid of the district court’s

jurisdiction.

      “Because circumstances similar to those in Baldwin-United are absent here,

we are bound to apply the general rule that an in personam state court action may


                                         30
not be enjoined” based on potential conflict with this federal action. Schurkman,

728 F.3d at 138. We decline to extend the Baldwin-United exception to allow a

permanent injunction against the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ securities law claims in state

court against the Fund’s underwriter.

                                 CONCLUSION

      For the reasons above, the district court exceeded its discretion by entering

a permanent injunction against the Opt-Out Plaintiffs’ state court actions. The

district court’s order is VACATED and the case REMANDED for further

proceedings consistent with this opinion.




                                        31
