        United States Court of Appeals
             for the Fifth Circuit                                   United States Court of Appeals
                                                                              Fifth Circuit

                             ____________                                   FILED
                                                                        May 15, 2026
                              No. 25-20002
                                                                       Lyle W. Cayce
                             ____________                                   Clerk

United States of America,

                                                        Plaintiff—Appellant,

                                    versus

Sade Kuyoro,

                                         Defendant—Appellee.
               ______________________________

               Appeal from the United States District Court
                   for the Southern District of Texas
                        USDC No. 4:21-CR-222-2
               ______________________________

Before Haynes, Higginson, and Ho, Circuit Judges.
Stephen A. Higginson, Circuit Judge:
       The Government charged Sade Kuyoro with disaster relief fraud and
wire fraud following FEMA’s award of approximately $33,000 to Kuyoro
after Hurricane Harvey. During trial, the Government discovered it had
failed to disclose two pieces of evidence to the defense: (1) civil recoupment
letters mailed to Kuyoro in 2020, and (2) an email to a third-party contractor
who purportedly inspected the damaged property before FEMA awarded
Kuyoro disaster relief. Kuyoro moved to dismiss the indictment on the basis
that the late disclosures violated Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963), and
the district court dismissed the indictment without prejudice. We
                                    No. 25-20002


REVERSE the dismissal order and REMAND the case with instructions
that the indictment be reinstated. 1
                                         I
       In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey in 2017, Sade Kuyoro filed a
FEMA disaster relief application claiming that her home, located at 5666
Howell Street, Unit C, in Houston, Texas, had sustained hurricane damage.
To support her application, Kuyoro provided documentation indicating that
she supported two dependents, a hotel receipt for a portion of the time she
was allegedly displaced from her home, an automotive repair shop estimate
for a vehicle allegedly damaged in the hurricane, a utility bill for 5666 Howell
Street, and a utility bill for a rental property she allegedly lived in while
displaced. Based on Kuyoro’s representations, FEMA provided her with
$33,000 in disaster relief funds.
       After an investigation, the Government determined that Kuyoro’s
application was fraudulent. The United States charged Kuyoro with one
count of disaster fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1040(a)(1) and two counts
of wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343. Kuyoro pleaded not guilty and
proceeded to trial.
                       A. The Government’s Case in Chief
       At trial, the Government presented evidence that the Howell Street
residence listed in Kuyoro’s FEMA application had been fabricated. Delfina
Gutierrez testified that she had lived at 5666 Howell Street for 20 years and
that no “Unit C” had ever existed. Gutierrez stated that 5666 Howell Street
sustained minimal damage from the hurricane. She further testified that she
did not know Kuyoro.

       _____________________
       1
           Kuyoro’s motion to supplement the record on appeal is GRANTED.




                                         2
                                  No. 25-20002


       The Government also presented evidence that Kuyoro never lived in
Houston. Kuyoro certified in a 2018 Illinois bankruptcy petition that, in the
prior three years (including during Hurricane Harvey in August 2017), she
had never lived anywhere other than Illinois. Investigators also located
Kuyoro’s Illinois driver’s license, which was valid and registered to an Illinois
address during the time she sought FEMA damage relief for the Howell
Street property. She had used this license to open a post office box in
Houston, which she designated as her mailing address on the FEMA
application.
       The Government introduced additional evidence demonstrating that
the documentation Kuyoro filed in support of her application was fraudulent.
First, the hotel that Kuyoro claimed she resided at while displaced by the
hurricane damage confirmed that Kuyoro never stayed there. Second, the
automotive repair shop which supposedly estimated the hurricane damage to
Kuyoro’s car attested that it had never issued such an estimate. Third, the
apartment Kuyoro listed as one of the places she lived while displaced by
hurricane damage did not exist. And, lastly, Kuyoro’s 2018 Illinois
bankruptcy reflected that she had no dependents.
       Finally, the Government presented evidence calling into question
whether the FEMA inspection—allegedly conducted on the Howell Street
property in support of the relief application—ever occurred. On September
28, 2017, the day before FEMA’s inspection was scheduled, Kuyoro called
FEMA to report that her damaged home had been demolished. Despite this,
Kuyoro’s FEMA application and inspection report reflect that 5666 Howell
Street, Unit C, was inspected on September 29, 2017.
       Kuyoro’s main defense at trial was to highlight that, although there
was evidence showing an inspection occurred at the Howell Street property




                                       3
                                 No. 25-20002


and that the inspector met with Kuyoro, the absence of the inspector at trial
was a major flaw in the Government’s case.
                    B. The Allegedly Withheld Evidence
       The Government elicited testimony from two witnesses that
prompted the discovery of the allegedly withheld evidence in this case: (1)
civil recoupment letters mailed to Kuyoro in 2020, and (2) an email to a third-
party contractor who purportedly inspected the damaged property before
FEMA awarded Kuyoro disaster relief.
       As to the first piece of withheld evidence, Pamela Glasschroeder, a
FEMA representative, testified about FEMA’s procedures for processing
relief applications, explaining that, after a person applied for FEMA relief,
third-party contractors inspect the relevant property. These inspectors
sometimes take photographs of the damaged property during the inspection
but do not upload or include them in the applicant’s FEMA file. Sometimes
inspectors rely on the applicant’s representation of the property damage as
conveyed over the phone. Inspectors then produce a final investigation report
representing the total loss to the property.
       During cross-examination, defense counsel asked Glasschroeder
whether FEMA had sought to recoup any of the funds it paid to Kuyoro, and
if so, how much. Glasschroeder said that someone from FEMA had asked
for the money back, but she was unsure of the amount sought. Prompted by
Glasschroeder’s testimony, Agent Mickey Johnson, a Special Agent with the
Department of Homeland Security and Office of Inspector General, searched
the FEMA database and located two civil recoupment letters that FEMA
had mailed to Kuyoro in 2020 which had not been disclosed to the defense.
       The Government immediately disclosed the recoupment letters to
defense counsel. The Government explained to the district court that it had
inadvertently failed to disclose the 2020 letters because they were created




                                       4
                                 No. 25-20002


after FEMA provided prosecutors with Kuyoro’s file in 2019, which was the
same file shared with defense. It further explained that, a few days before
trial, the Government gave defense counsel emails between Agent Johnson
and a FEMA accounting technician about civil recoupment efforts made in
Kuyoro’s case, which showed Kuyoro had not repaid any funds.
       Defense counsel argued that the late disclosure of these letters
impeded counsel’s ability to thoroughly cross-examine Agent Johnson, who
had not yet testified. The defense also argued that the late disclosure violated
the Government’s disclosure obligations under Brady v. Maryland because
the Government was in possession of the favorable, material letters but did
not disclose them in response to Kuyoro’s discovery requests. The district
court allowed the trial to proceed but first gave the defense time to review the
letters prior to Agent Johnson’s testimony.
       The second piece of withheld evidence came to light during the
testimony of Agent Johnson. Agent Johnson testified about his criminal
investigation into Kuyoro and his review of her FEMA file. When the
prosecutor asked whether Agent Johnson had ever attempted to contact the
FEMA inspector, Agent Johnson testified that he had attempted to do so,
but he had never received a response.
       After his testimony, Agent Johnson searched his “sent” email inbox
and located a copy of his unanswered email to the inspector, which the
Government had not previously disclosed. The Government immediately
turned this email over to the defense. But the defense objected, arguing that
this late disclosure violated Brady because the inspector could have been an
exculpatory witness, and the defense was otherwise unaware of the
inspector’s identity and contact information.
       Kuyoro then moved to dismiss the indictment, or alternatively, for a
mistrial. She did not put on a defense and moved for a judgment of acquittal




                                        5
                                  No. 25-20002


under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 29. The court reserved ruling on
the motion to dismiss. It then ordered the Government to respond to the
defense’s motion to dismiss by the following morning.
                      C. The District Court’s Dismissal
       The next day, in an oral ruling, the court dismissed the indictment
without prejudice as a “sanction.” The court focused its concern on the
second issue relating to the nondisclosure of Agent Johnson’s attempt to
contact the FEMA inspector. The court noted that the problem with the non-
disclosure was that “it did not afford the defendant an opportunity to make
[the] determination” of whether the inspector would be essential to the
defense’s case. The court explained that, “looking at what Brady requires,”
the Government should have turned over the evidence to the defense.
However, the court also acknowledged that it could not determine whether
the testimony of the inspector would have been favorable to the defendant,
since any information the inspector would share was “unknown.”
       The district court dismissed the indictment, but it did not clearly
specify on which grounds—Brady, Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 16, or
its supervisory authority. The district court focused on two recent cases
before it, during which the Government had committed discovery violations.
In emphasizing the violations in the other cases, the district court explained
that, “standing alone,” the failures in this case “may not rise to the level of
having this case mistried or dismissed.” The court explicitly found “no
malicious or nefarious intent” by the prosecutors in Kuyoro’s case.
However, the court stated that, although “these particular violations [alone]
could be dealt with through . . . a continuance . . . . taken as a whole with the
prior two cases,” dismissal of the indictment without prejudice in Kuyoro’s
case seemed to the district court the appropriate remedy. The court cited its
inherent supervisory powers to “implement a remedy for violation of a




                                       6
                                 No. 25-20002


recognized statutory or constitutional right,” “to preserve judicial
integrity,” and “to deter future illegal conduct.”
        The Government then moved for reconsideration. Following a
hearing, the district court denied the Government’s motion and reaffirmed
its decision to dismiss the indictment without prejudice pursuant to its
supervisory powers. The Government timely appealed.
                                      II
        We have jurisdiction over this appeal pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3731.
We review whether the Government violated Brady de novo, although we
defer to the district court’s factual findings. United States v. Brown, 650 F.3d
581, 589 (5th Cir. 2011). We review the district court’s interpretation of Rule
16 de novo. United States v. Brown, 303 F.3d 582, 589 (5th Cir. 2002). “We
review remedies for discovery violations imposed by a district court for abuse
of discretion.” United States v. Katz, 178 F.3d 368, 372 (5th Cir. 1999).
                                      III
        The Government argues that the district court abused its discretion in
dismissing the indictment because the late disclosures of the recoupment
letters and the information pertaining to the inspector did not violate Brady
or Rule 16. Alternatively, the Government argues that, regardless of whether
the dismissal was pursuant to the court’s supervisory powers, Rule 16, or
Brady, the district court abused its discretion in failing to conduct the
required prejudice analysis and failing to weigh the factors enumerated in
United States v. Garrett, 238 F.3d 293 (5th Cir. 2000), when it determined an
appropriate sanction.
        We address each potential basis for the district court’s dismissal in
turn.




                                       7
                                 No. 25-20002


                                       A
       “To establish a Brady violation, a defendant must show: (1) the
evidence at issue was favorable to the accused, either because it was
exculpatory or impeaching; (2) the evidence was suppressed by the
prosecution; and (3) the evidence was material.” United States v. Cessa, 861
F.3d 121, 128 (5th Cir. 2017) (quoting United States v. Dvorin, 817 F.3d 438,
450 (5th Cir. 2016)). But, under Brady, the Government “bears no
responsibility to direct the defense toward potentially exculpatory evidence
that is either known to the defendant or that could be discovered through the
exercise of reasonable diligence.” United States v. Sipe, 388 F.3d 471, 478 (5th
Cir. 2004).
       When evidence is turned over to the defense during trial, such that the
defense challenges the late production—rather than non-production—of the
evidence, “the analysis instead turns on whether the defendant was
prejudiced by the tardy disclosure.” United States v. Morrison, 833 F.3d 491,
508 (5th Cir. 2016). “If the defendant received the material in time to put it
to effective use at trial, his conviction should not be reversed simply because
it was not disclosed as early as it might have and, indeed, should have been.”
United States v. McKinney, 758 F.2d 1036, 1050 (5th Cir. 1985). If a defendant
cannot show prejudice from the late disclosure, the evidence is not
suppressed under Brady. See United States v. Swenson, 894 F.3d 677, 683–84
(5th Cir. 2018).
       Neither the civil recoupment letters nor the information about the
FEMA-contracted inspector were suppressed under Brady.
       First, because Kuyoro cannot show that she was prejudiced by the
Government’s late disclosure of the recoupment letters, her Brady argument
fails. See id. Defense counsel received the letters before Agent Johnson
testified, and the district court gave counsel time to review them prior to




                                       8
                                   No. 25-20002


counsel’s cross-examination. To “cure the issue,” the Government agreed
it would not object to any argument or questioning about whether the
Government had “failed to provide any kind of evidence that there were
recoupment efforts made.” And the district court remarked “it did not see
how this has harmed the defense.”
       Kuyoro argues the late disclosure of the letters was prejudicial because
counsel “was forced to drop” the line of questioning about whether FEMA
ever sought return of disaster relief funds, and prior to discovering the letters,
the defense had no evidence that FEMA sought repayment of the funds from
Kuyoro. Even if so, Kuyoro fails to explain how these concerns amount to
prejudice. Kuyoro does not explain why the recoupment letters bear on any
defense to disaster or wire fraud. Further, counsel already possessed
evidence that Kuyoro had not repaid any funds to FEMA. Because Kuyoro
received the letters in time to “put [them] to effective use” at trial, and has
otherwise failed to demonstrate prejudice, the letters were not violative of
Brady. See McKinney, 758 F.2d at 1050.
       Second, the evidence relating to the FEMA inspector was not
suppressed under Brady because Kuyoro could have obtained the
information about the FEMA inspector with the exercise of reasonable
diligence. This is because “Brady does not oblige the government to provide
the defendants with evidence that they could obtain from other sources by
exercising reasonable diligence,” and “defendants must bear the
responsibility of their failure to diligently seek its discovery.” United States v.
McKenzie, 768 F.2d 602, 608 (5th Cir. 1985); see also West v. Johnson, 92 F.3d
1385, 1399 (5th Cir. 1996).
       For one, there is no meaningful dispute that Kuyoro knew about the
inspector such that she could have sought to obtain more information about
him for use at trial. Counsel for Kuyoro elicited testimony from witnesses to




                                        9
                                 No. 25-20002


argue affirmatively that a real inspection took place at the Howell Street
property and that Kuyoro met with the inspector. Kuyoro therefore
purported to have sufficient knowledge of the inspection that would permit
her to seek the identity of the inspector and any information in his possession
for use at trial if she so chose. See Rector v. Johnson, 120 F.3d 551, 560 (5th
Cir. 1997) (reasoning that the defendant, “better than anyone else, knew [the
witnesses’s] whereabouts on the night” of the crime such that the
government did not suppress a store clerk’s statement that supported the
defendant’s alibi).
        Further, counsel had access to the inspection report and the
contracted inspector’s FEMA identification number well in advance of trial.
Kuyoro represents that counsel “attempted to identify the inspector before
trial but was unable,” but she fails to explain why, with the exercise of
reasonable diligence, she could not have subpoenaed the inspector to learn
his identity or pursued other avenues to contact the inspector.
        We have rejected a similar argument before. In United States v. Sipe,
the defendant argued that the government suppressed notes of an interview
conducted with a classmate of the defendant who was not called as a witness
at trial. 388 F.3d at 486. The notes were not “suppressed” under Brady
because the defendant could have exercised reasonable effort to contact the
witness himself and determine whether he wanted to call him at trial. Id. at
487; see also United States v. Vasquez-Hernandez, 924 F.3d 164, 171 (5th Cir.
2019) (holding no Brady violation when the government failed to disclose the
location of the defendant’s children because defendant could have
subpoenaed them, called them as witnesses, or sought other information to
use at trial).
        Circuit courts across the country similarly distinguish Brady claims
involving witnesses and other materials about which defendants knew and




                                      10
                                    No. 25-20002


failed to investigate further themselves. See, e.g., United States v. Stein, 846
F.3d 1135, 1146 (11th Cir. 2017) (rejecting the argument that a publicly
available Securities and Exchange Commission document, revealing the
name of a potentially relevant witness, was Brady material because the
defendant failed to show that he was unable to locate the document and
relevant evidence with reasonable diligence); United States v. LeRoy, 687 F.2d
610, 618–19 (2d Cir. 1982) (finding no Brady violation when defendant knew
of the witnesses’ identity and could have subpoenaed the witnesses to testify
at trial); Cunningham v. Wong, 704 F.3d 1143, 1154 (9th Cir. 2013) (rejecting
argument that autopsy report was suppressed because attorneys knew that
the autopsy had transpired and could have sought the report through the
discovery process); United States v. Edwards, 34 F.4th 570, 587 (7th Cir.
2022) (explaining that, although the government should have produced a
report about a witness’s prior statement, “anything [the defendant] would
have gained from it was available to him through reasonable diligence”
because it concerned the defendant’s own favorable witness).
       We find these cases persuasive. Kuyoro cannot claim suppression
under Brady when she knew of the inspector’s existence and failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to obtain further information about the inspector or to
call him at trial. Because we find no suppression, we need not address the
favorability and materiality prongs. See Swenson, 894 F.3d at 683.
                                *        *         *
       Given that we find no Brady violation, to the extent the district court
dismissed the indictment on this ground, the district court erred.
                                         B
       Rule 16(a)(1)(E) provides that, upon a defendant’s request, the
Government must permit the defendant to “inspect and to copy” evidence
that is “material to preparing the defense,” or evidence that “the




                                         11
                                 No. 25-20002


government intends to use . . . in its case-in-chief at trial.” Fed. R. Crim.
P. 16(a)(1)(E). When a party fails to comply with a provision of Rule 16, the
district court may “order that party to permit the discovery or inspection,”
“grant a continuance,” “prohibit that party from introducing the
undisclosed evidence,” or “enter any other order that is just under the
circumstances.” Fed. R. Crim. P. 16(d)(2).
       We have explained that district courts, in exercising their discretion
to impose sanctions for statutory and rule-based discovery violations, should
consider the following factors: “1) the reasons why disclosure was not made;
2) the amount of prejudice to the opposing party; 3) the feasibility of curing
such prejudice with a continuance of the trial; and 4) any other relevant
circumstances.” Garrett, 238 F.3d at 298; see also United States v. Sarcinelli,
667 F.2d 5, 6–7 (5th Cir. 1982). Courts “should impose the least severe
sanction that will accomplish the desired result—prompt and full compliance
with the court’s discovery orders.” Garrett, 238 F.3d at 298 (quoting
Sarcinelli, 667 F.2d at 7).
       Assuming arguendo that the late disclosures violated Rule 16, the
district court did not expressly consider the Garrett factors before dismissing
the indictment without prejudice. See Swenson, 894 F.3d at 684. The record
reveals that the district court heard argument from counsel concerning the
discovery violations, questioned the Government about the reasons for the
nondisclosures, and found “no malicious or nefarious intent” underlying the
prosecutors’ actions. While the district court heard counsel’s argument
about the prejudice to Kuyoro, it made no finding of prejudice. The court also
mentioned that, “[t]aken by itself, [the] particular violations could be dealt
with through . . . a continuance of [the] case,” but it focused on the two
instances of discovery violations in other cases, which had resulted in a
warning issued to prosecutors that any more misconduct could result in




                                      12
                                     No. 25-20002


future dismissals. The district court focused on these other cases to the
exclusion of the considerations required under Garrett.
        To the extent we can assess the court’s remarks under the Garrett
factors, the district court failed to impose the least severe sanction that would
remedy any discovery violations. Under Rule 16(d)(2), sanctions must be the
least severe to accomplish compliance with the court’s discovery orders. See
Sarcinelli, 667 F.2d at 7. Although the court noted a continuance would
remedy the alleged violations in this case, it declined to continue the case or
impose another, less severe sanction. The district court abused its discretion
in failing to consider the Garrett factors and, otherwise, in imposing a more
severe sanction 2 than necessary to cure any Rule 16 violation in Kuyoro’s
case.
                                           C
        The district court invoked its supervisory powers when it dismissed
the indictment and denied the Government’s motion for reconsideration.
        The Government argues that, even if the dismissal was pursuant to
the court’s supervisory powers rather than tailored to any Brady or Rule 16
violation, the sanction was still an abuse of discretion because Kuyoro cannot
show she was prejudiced by the late disclosed evidence. Notably, Kuyoro
does not raise the court’s exercise of its supervisory powers as an
independent basis for dismissal,3 but she argues that the court’s dismissal was
        _____________________
        2
          We note that a dismissal without prejudice, though less severe than a dismissal
with prejudice, imposes greater hardship on the Government as a sanction than a
continuance. See United States v. Taylor, 487 U.S. 326, 342 (1988) (explaining that a
dismissal of an indictment without prejudice “is not a toothless sanction” because the
Government must reindict).
        3
          Therefore, Kuyoro has forfeited any argument that the district court’s dismissal
was appropriately fashioned as a supervisory power “remedy designed to deter further
illegal conduct.” United States v. Hasting, 461 U.S. 499, 505 (1983); see Rollins v. Home




                                           13
                                       No. 25-20002


proper as a remedy “for the violation of a recognized statutory or
constitutional right” and that the late disclosures were nonetheless
prejudicial to her.
        Federal courts may exercise their supervisory authority to “formulate
procedural rules not specifically required by the Constitution or the
Congress,” but such exercise is invalid if it conflicts with constitutional or
statutory provisions. Bank of Nova Scotia v. United States, 487 U.S. 250, 254
(1988) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). The purposes of a
court’s supervisory powers are to “1) implement a remedy for a violation of
a recognized right, 2) to preserve judicial integrity by [e]nsuring that the
conviction rests on appropriate consideration validly before the jury[,] and 3)
as a remedy designed to deter further illegal conduct.” United States v.
Ornelas-Rodriguez, 12 F.3d 1339, 1349 (5th Cir. 1994). A district court exceeds
its supervisory powers when it dismisses “an indictment for prosecutorial
misconduct not prejudicial to the defendant” in line with Federal Rule of
Criminal Procedure 52(a). Bank of Nova Scotia, 487 U.S. at 255; see also
Swenson, 894 F.3d at 685.
        It is clear that the district court never conducted the required
prejudice analysis, and Kuyoro has not shown any actual prejudice by the
late-disclosed evidence. Swenson, 894 F.3d at 685. As explained above,
Kuyoro was not prejudiced by the late disclosure of the recoupment letters
because she received the letters during trial and was given time to implement
the evidence in advance of her cross-examination. 4 As to the inspector

        _____________________
Depot USA, 8 F.4th 393, 397 (5th Cir. 2021) (explaining that a party forfeits an argument
by failing to raise the argument below or failing to adequately brief the argument on appeal).
        4
          Indeed, the district court noted that the “instance” involving the recoupment
letters “was cured immediately in that approximately six pages were provided to defense
mid-trial.”




                                             14
                                      No. 25-20002


information, defense counsel was aware of the absence of the inspector’s
testimony and chose to use this as a theory to challenge the Government’s
case at trial. Counsel also had access to information about the inspector that,
for the reasons explained above, and with the exercise of reasonable diligence,
he could have used at trial. Despite this, even if the late disclosure of the
inspector email prejudiced Kuyoro in some way, she fails to adequately
explain why a continuance of the trial would not have remedied any
prejudice. Nor does she explain why the dismissal without prejudice was an
appropriately tailored sanction for any discovery violation in this case. See id.
at 685–86. Kuyoro has not demonstrated prejudice sufficient to support the
district court’s sanction. 5
                                            IV
        The district court abused its discretion when it dismissed Kuyoro’s
indictment without prejudice. Accordingly, as the Government requests, we
REVERSE the order of the district court dismissing the indictment and
REMAND the case with instructions to reinstate the indictment.




        _____________________
        5
           As our court said in Swenson, we decline “to ‘foreclose the possibility that
governmental ineptitude and carelessness could be so abhorrent as to warrant a dismissal
with prejudice,’” or even a dismissal without prejudice as the court imposed here. 894 F.3d
at 685 (quoting United States v. Fulmer, 722 F.2d 1192, 1196 (5th Cir. 1983)). But we have
explained that “mere error or oversight is neither gross negligence nor intentional
misconduct” to constitute prosecutorial misconduct. Fulmer, 722 F.2d at 1195 (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted); see also United States v. Strouse, 286 F.3d 767, 771–
76 (5th Cir. 2002) (explaining why, in the grand jury context, supervisory power dismissal
must be sourced in a finding of intentional governmental misconduct). The district court
explicitly stated that it found “no malicious or nefarious intent” underlying the
prosecutors’ actions.




                                            15
