FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

RENALDO WHITE; RANDOLPH                   No. 22-35748
NADEAU, individually and on behalf
of all others similarly situated,           D.C. No.
                                         2:20-cv-01866-
             Plaintiffs-Appellees,            MJP

 v.
                                           OPINION
SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS
SERVICE COMPANY; SYMETRA
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,

             Defendants-Appellants.

      Appeal from the United States District Court
        for the Western District of Washington
      Marsha J. Pechman, District Judge, Presiding

        Argued and Submitted October 17, 2023
                  Phoenix, Arizona

                  Filed June 20, 2024

 Before: Sandra S. Ikuta, Bridget S. Bade, and Daniel A.
                 Bress, Circuit Judges.

                Opinion by Judge Bress
2       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


                          SUMMARY*


                       Class Certification

    The panel reversed the district court’s certification of
two nationwide classes in a putative class action of
approximately 2,000 payees who received structured
settlement annuities to resolve personal injury claims.
    Plaintiffs alleged that defendants Symetra Life Insurance
Company and Symetra Assigned Benefits Service Company
wrongfully induced them to cash out their annuities in
individualized “factoring” arrangements, whereby they gave
up their rights to periodic payments in return for discounted
lump sums.
    Rule 23 of the Federal Rule of Civil Procedure governs
class certification, and requires that questions of law or fact
common to class members predominate over any questions
affecting only individual members.
    The panel held that the district court erred in certifying
the primary nationwide class, which advanced claims under
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and
state law. Certification was legally improper because
individualized issues of causation will predominate. The
record indicates that defendants’ allegedly uniform course of
conduct was not as uniform as plaintiffs suggest. Even
assuming defendants engaged in uniform conduct, plaintiffs
have not shown there is a common question of whether such
conduct improperly induced plaintiffs to enter into factoring

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.         3


agreements to their detriment. Any assessment of whether
defendants’ alleged acts and omissions caused plaintiffs to
enter the factoring transactions, or led to them accepting
inferior factoring deals than they otherwise would have
absent the alleged misconduct, would require an analysis of
each plaintiff’s individual circumstances.
    The panel held that the district court erred in certifying a
nationwide subclass of plaintiffs whose original settlement
agreements with their personal injury tortfeasors contained
structured settlement annuity (SSA) anti-assignment
provisions. The record indicates that the annuitants hail from
a wide array of different states, and some of the settlement
agreements have choice of law provisions denoting the law
of a state other than the location where the contract was
executed. The apparent variations in state law on the
enforceability of anti-assignment provisions in SSAs and the
need to apply multiple state laws to the subclass raised a
substantial question of whether individual issues
predominate and how the matter can be fairly managed as a
class action.
4      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


                        COUNSEL

Alison E. Chase (argued), Keller Rohrback, Santa Barbara,
California; Adele A. Daniel, Sydney Read, Gretchen F.
Cappio, and Lynn L. Sarko, Keller Rohrback LLP, Seattle,
Washington; Edward Stone, Edward Stone Law PC,
Greenwich, Connecticut; Jerome M. Marcus and Jonathan
Auerbach, Marcus & Auerbach LLC, Spring House,
Pennsylvania; Daniel C. Simons, Marcus & Marcus PC,
Merion Station, Pennsylvania; for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
Maeve L. O’Connor (argued) and Susan R. Gittes,
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, New York, New York; Medora
A. Marisseau, Karr Tuttle Campbell, Seattle, Washington;
for Defendants-Appellants.


                        OPINION

BRESS, Circuit Judge:

    This is a putative class action of approximately 2,000
payees who received structured settlement annuities to
resolve personal injury claims. The plaintiffs later cashed
out their annuities in individualized “factoring”
arrangements, giving up the right to periodic payments in
return for discounted lump sums. The factoring transactions
were permitted by federal and state law, and they were
approved by state courts, which found that factoring was in
the annuitants’ best interests. The plaintiffs now claim,
however, that the defendants, Symetra Life Insurance
Company and Symetra Assigned Benefits Service Company,
wrongfully induced the factoring agreements through
misrepresentations, unfair business practices, and a
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.         5


concealed conflict of interest. The district court certified two
nationwide classes under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure
23. Because individual issues predominate over common
ones, we reverse.
                               I
                               A
     In a structured settlement annuity, or SSA, a tortfeasor
or its insurer purchases an annuity to settle a claim, with the
victim receiving periodic payments instead of a lump sum.
See Legal Econ. Evaluations, Inc. v. Metro. Life Ins. Co., 39
F.3d 951, 952 (9th Cir. 1994); Daniel W. Hindert,
STRUCTURED SETTLEMENTS AND PERIODIC PAYMENT
JUDGMENTS § 1.01(2) (2019). The idea behind these
arrangements is to provide for the tort victim’s long-term
care and expenses. In an SSA, the tortfeasor oftentimes
assigns payment responsibilities to another entity, called an
assignment company. The assignment company purchases
an annuity from a life insurance company to facilitate its
payment obligations to the tort victim. To incentivize SSA
arrangements, both annuitants and assignment companies
receive favorable tax treatment. See 26 U.S.C. §§ 104(a)(2),
130; Cordero v. Transamerica Annuity Serv. Corp., 34 F.4th
994, 997 (11th Cir. 2022) (per curiam).
    Annuitants who enter SSAs may later cash out their right
to future payments, in whole or in part, in exchange for an
immediate discounted lump sum. See Symetra Life Ins. Co.
v. Rapid Settlements, Ltd., 775 F.3d 242, 245 (5th Cir. 2014)
(explaining that annuitants “often . . . prefer a large one-time
payment in lieu of the smaller payments over time,” and that
companies can “offer to pay the annuitant a lump sum now
in exchange for the right to collect the annuitant’s future
payments”); In re Hughes, 513 S.W.3d 28, 30–31 (Tex. Ct.
6      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


App. 2016) (analyzing a case involving a partial
assignment). This practice is known as “factoring.” Federal
and state law permit factoring, but, as one may expect, these
transactions are subject to oversight. See Cordero, 34 F.4th
at 996.
    Federal law uses the favorable tax treatment of SSAs to
incentivize parties to safeguard factoring transactions from
potential abuse. For SSA payments to maintain their
preferred tax treatment post-factoring, a state court or other
qualifying state authority must find that the factoring
agreement complies with federal and state law and is “in the
best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and
support of the payee’s dependents.”                 26 U.S.C.
§ 5891(b)(2)(A)(ii); see also TransAmerica Assur. Corp. v.
Settlement Cap. Corp., 489 F.3d 256, 259–60 (6th Cir.
2007). To implement this, states have enacted Structured
Settlement Protection Acts, or SSPAs. See Hindert, supra,
§ 16.04(1) (“Starting with Illinois in 1997, every state and
the District of Columbia has enacted a form of Structured
Settlement Protection Act or SSPA.”); Symetra Life, 775
F.3d at 245.
    State SSPAs require factoring companies and payees to
follow specified procedures before a factoring transaction
can be carried out. See Hindert, supra, § 16.04(3). The
process differs state by state, but broadly speaking, SSPAs
impose disclosure and other procedural requirements and
require court approval. Under each state SSPA, factoring
companies are required to make written disclosures to the
payee “designed to highlight the value of the transferred
payments and to contrast that value with the net amount the
payee will actually receive.” Id. § 16.04(3)(a). Some
SSPAs mandate the format, language, and even the size of
the typeface in these written disclosures. See, e.g., Cal. Ins.
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.       7


Code § 10136(b). These disclosures can include required
provisions relating to the payee’s right to seek and receive
independent professional advice on the transaction, see, e.g.,
Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 2323.582(J), and itemization of fees
and expenses that will be deducted from the gross amount
the payee will receive, see, e.g., Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-
3104(1)(b)(v). Many SSPAs require disclosure of the
discounted present value and effective interest rate of the
transferred payments. See, e.g., id. § 25-3104(1)(b)(vii)–
(viii); Cal. Ins. Code § 10136(c)(6), (8); Symetra Life, 775
F.3d at 245–46; Hindert, supra, § 16.04(3)(a). If a factoring
company tries to avoid the procedural requirements, the
transaction can be denied, and fees and costs can be awarded
against the company. Hindert, supra, § 16.04(3)(c); Symetra
Life, 775 F.3d at 246.
    Advance court approval is the “cornerstone” of both state
and federal law in this area. Hindert, supra, § 16.04(3)(b).
To consummate their transaction, the payee and factoring
company obtain from a state court or other competent body
a finding that factoring “will serve the best interests of the
payee and the payee’s dependents and/or is necessary to
enable them to avoid hardships,” and will not contravene any
applicable law.      Id.; see also, e.g., Cal. Ins. Code
§ 10139.5(a) (deeming ineffectual the transfer of structured
settlement payment rights “unless the transfer has been
approved in advance in a final court order”); Wash. Rev.
Code. § 19.205.030. Many SSPAs call for the court to find
that the factoring company complied with the relevant
disclosure obligations. See, e.g., W. Va. Code § 46A-6H-
3(f)(2). SSPAs also often require either a finding “that the
payee has received ‘independent professional advice’
concerning the proposed transfer” or that the payee was
advised to do so and waived that right. Hindert, supra
8      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


§ 16.04(3)(b); see, e.g., Tex. Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code
§ 141.004(2). The approval process typically involves a
hearing in which a state court judge considers the context of
the transaction and the payee’s needs for immediate funds.
See Hindert, supra, § 16.05(4)(a); Va. Code Ann. § 59.1-
477(B).
    Ultimately, the state court must make an independent
determination that the factoring transaction is in the payee’s
“best interest.” 26 U.S.C. § 5891(b)(2)(A). This test “refers
to the personal circumstances of the individual seeking an
immediate cash sum,” and “is akin to . . . best interest
determinations” made in family, probate, or guardianship
proceedings. Hindert, supra, § 16.05(4)(a). The “best
interest” of a payee can also be legislatively defined.
California’s SSPA, for example, provides fifteen non-
exclusive factors that a state court must consider when
making this determination. See Cal. Ins. Code § 10139.5(b).
    Some state SSPAs take this a step further and require that
any factoring transaction be adjudged “fair and reasonable.”
Hindert, supra, § 16.05(4)(a). This standard “is largely
associated with the difference between what is being paid in
cash by the transfer company and the aggregate value of the
future payment rights being acquired.” Id.; see also, e.g.,
Cal. Ins. Code § 10139.5(b)(9) (requiring an approving court
to consider “[w]hether the financial terms of the transaction,
including the discount rate[,] . . . the expenses and costs of
the transaction[,] . . . [and] the available financial
alternatives to the payee . . . are fair and reasonable”).
   In sum, the state court approval process is designed to
evaluate each transaction individually and to protect
annuitants when they engage in factoring.
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.         9


                               B
    Defendant Symetra Assigned Benefits Service Company
(SABSCO) operated as an SSA assignment company that
assumed the obligations of tortfeasors to make periodic
payments to tort victims. To make these payments,
SABSCO purchased SSAs from an affiliated entity,
defendant Symetra Life Insurance Company (Symetra Life).
After concluding that SSAs could become unprofitable over
time, the defendants in the mid-2000s began soliciting their
annuitants to enter factoring transactions. When a tort victim
elected to factor, SABSCO would purchase from the
annuitants at a discounted price the stream of SSA payments
that Symetra Life was issuing through its annuities.
    To market their factoring opportunities, the defendants
sent solicitations to eligible annuitants on a quarterly basis
through mass mailings, newsletters, and emails. An
exemplar mailing informed annuitants that due to changed
circumstances, they might “face the need for cash now,
perhaps to pay for education, buy a home, or to pay off debt,”
inviting annuitants to contact SABSCO to learn more. Some
of these mailings described the defendants as the annuitants’
“friends.” In others, the defendants told annuitants that they
would “be your advocate.”
    Although these initial communications were
standardized, the process became more individualized to the
annuitant as it went along. Annuitants interested in factoring
would start a one-on-one process that typically began with a
call between the annuitant and a company representative.
The representative would ask questions specific to the
annuitant concerning his or her personal situation, including
his or her reasons for the desired sale, prior sale history, and
financial needs and goals. Based on this information from
10      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


the annuitant, the representative would then prepare an
initial quote for consideration.
    The two named plaintiffs’ experiences provide a window
into why some annuitants pursue factoring and how it works
in practice. Plaintiff Renaldo White was hit by a truck at age
ten and received a settlement to be paid out over his life.
Later, White began exploring opportunities to cash out the
settlement. White received mailings from both Symetra and
another factoring company, although Symetra ultimately
stopped sending White brochures in the early 2000s. White
spoke with both Symetra and its competitor about factoring
his settlement. Although Symetra “had a better deal at that
time,” White chose to factor with the other company because
he had already factored with it before.
    Over several years, White factored with three different
companies, including the defendants. White had one-on-one
contact with the defendants’ representatives dozens of times
during this period, as he explored his factoring options. In
2011, White decided he needed immediate access to funds
to pay for his wedding and the upcoming birth of his first
child. White ultimately agreed to sell to SABSCO his right
to (life-contingent) monthly payments worth an estimated
$695,000 for an immediate $18,609 payment, representing
an effective annual interest rate of 15.03% per year.
    At this time, White ratified that “I have determined that
completing this transaction with Symetra Assigned Benefits
Service Company is in my best interest and will improve my
quality of life.” At his deposition in this case, White testified
that the factoring transaction “was in my best interests at that
time.” White further agreed he was aware, based on
documents, that under his SSA “Symetra Assigned Benefits
Service Company is primarily obligated to make the periodic
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.       11


payments which are funded by an annuity issued by Symetra
Life.”
    A Tennessee state court approved White’s factoring
transaction. White filed an affidavit in this proceeding
acknowledging that SABSCO was “[t]he entity presently
obligated to make payments due under the structured
settlement,” and that “[i]n order to fund its payment
obligations under the structured settlement,” SABSCO
“purchased an annuity contract . . . from Symetra Life
Insurance Company.” White in his affidavit further stated
that he was “voluntarily enter[ing]” into the transaction, that
he had “carefully reviewed the Disclosure Statement and
fully and completely” understood its terms, and that after
SABSCO “advised [him] to seek independent professional
advice,” White “knowingly waived said advice in writing.”
White likewise confirmed his “understand[ing] that the
Assignment Payments will go to [SABSCO].”
    Based on his upcoming wedding, the imminent birth of
his child, and his related need to secure a larger residence,
White told the state court “that this transaction is in my best
interest,” “believ[ing] this is an efficient use of my money
and that I will be investing in my own future.” In accordance
with Tennessee law, Tenn. Code Ann. § 47-18-2603, the
judge reviewing White’s transaction would have considered
whether appropriate disclosures were made and that White
was advised to seek independent professional advice. To
approve the transaction, the court was required to further
find that White “has established that the transfer is fair and
reasonable and in the best interest of the payee.” Tenn. Code
Ann. § 47-18-2603(3).
   The second named plaintiff in this case, Randolph
Nadeau, received a structured settlement after he was injured
12     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


by a piece of falling cast iron at a construction site. Nadeau
engaged in four factoring transactions with SABSCO
between 2006 and 2020. One of these transactions
discounted his payments at an 18% interest rate.
    Like White, Nadeau had multiple discussions with the
defendants’ representatives before entering these
transactions. In one conversation, Nadeau called in to follow
up on a few quotes he had been provided in a previous
conversation. When the representative asked Nadeau how
he would use the money, Nadeau explained that he needed
funds to pay back taxes on an apartment building he owned
and to put a new roof on his house. At that point, the
SABSCO representative asked Nadeau if he had “looked
into any other options to finance this,” such as a loan.
Nadeau rejected the idea, explaining that he “want[ed] to do
it” by himself and that he had two other sources of income.
After the representative again suggested that a loan might be
more cost-effective, Nadeau questioned whether he would
qualify for a loan, reiterating his desire to pursue factoring.
    Once they had reached an agreement, the parties
presented their proposed transaction to a New York state
court for approval. We use Nadeau’s 2020 factoring
arrangement as an example of how this process worked.
During these 2020 proceedings, Nadeau submitted an
affidavit acknowledging that SABSCO was obligated to
make his payments and that to fund those payment
obligations, SABSCO had purchased an annuity from
Symetra Life. Nadeau acknowledged that Symetra’s counsel
was not representing his interests and that SABSCO had
advised him in writing to seek independent professional
advice on the arrangement, which he had either received or
knowingly waived. Nadeau in his affidavit also declared that
he had reviewed a disclosure statement on the transaction’s
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.        13


terms and that the transaction was in his best interest. At his
deposition in this case, Nadeau was asked, “did you
understand that Symetra Assigned Benefits Service
Company ‘SABSCO’ was likely to profit from this?” He
replied, “Of course.”
    A state court judge in New York examined the structure
of Nadeau’s payments, the aggregate amount of the
payments, the discounted present value, and the gross
amount payable to Nadeau. The judge confirmed that
Nadeau had waived his right to consult an attorney or other
advisor about the transaction. Nadeau testified that he did
not need any advice because he was sixty-five years old and
had “run a couple of businesses and I’ve got the experience
in what I’m asking for.” Nadeau explained that he had
another source of income from his rental business, but that
he had “fallen behind a little bit on taxes” and that the roof
on his home needed replacing. Nadeau also said he had a
tree service business that was “starting to pick up,” so he
could “let this money go, because I’ve got other income
coming in.”
    The state court judge was careful to tell Nadeau that he
was “expecting a payment to be approved today, of less than
half” the value of the payments he could otherwise receive,
to which Nadeau said, “I know.” Nadeau thanked the judge
“for being so thorough,” confirming that he had “run the
expenses,” had “quite a lot of experience,” and that “after
thinking it all over, it’s the best thing right now for me to do
at my age.” After giving “careful consideration” to
Nadeau’s testimony and the governing law, the judge
approved the transaction, finding it fair and reasonable and
in Nadeau’s best interests.
14     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


                              C
     In 2021, White and Nadeau filed this putative class
action against Symetra Life and SABSCO, alleging that the
defendants unlawfully induced annuitants to enter factoring
transactions to their detriment. A key allegation in this case
is that because the defendants were the issuer and obligor in
the SSAs, they improperly used their knowledge of the
annuitants to solicit them into entering predatory and
inequitable factoring arrangements—arrangements in which
defendants stood to profit and had a conflict of interest. The
plaintiffs allege that defendants “weaponize[d] Symetra’s
position of ‘trust’ with its annuitants to induce them into
selling off their future financial security.”
    The plaintiffs advanced claims under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and the
Washington Consumer Protection Act (WCPA). They also
asserted state law claims for breach of the duty of good faith
and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract,
tortious interference with contract, civil conspiracy, and
unjust enrichment.
    White and Nadeau moved to certify a nationwide class
of nearly 2,000 individuals who sold their Symetra-issued
SSA payment rights to SABSCO between 2005 and 2020.
The plaintiffs also moved to certify a nationwide breach-of-
contract subclass consisting of hundreds of persons whose
original settlement agreements with their tortfeasors
contained language stating that the annuitants lacked the
“power” to assign their payments.
    Except for the breach of fiduciary duty claim, which
could not be certified due to the lack of any underlying
fiduciary duty, the district court certified plaintiffs’ claims
under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23. In its ruling, the
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.      15


court focused on the “[c]ommon, uniform marketing
materials” that the defendants used to solicit annuitants for
factoring transactions. To satisfy the element of causation,
the court held that these marketing materials gave “rise to a
common sense inference that no individual would factor
with a company whose rates are subpar and whose
transactions are not in the individual’s best interest, unless
that individual relied on the representations.” The court
certified the following two classes:

       Nationwide Class: “All persons who are or
       were, at any time, annuitants of an SSA that
       contemplated life contingent payments
       issued by Symetra and who subsequently
       sold to a Symetra affiliate the right to receive
       payments from that SSA in a factoring
       transaction.”
       Nationwide Subclass: “All members of the
       Class whose contract defining the annuity at
       issue included language explicitly stating that
       the annuitants lack the power to transfer their
       future SSA payments.”

    A motions panel of this court granted the defendants’
petition for leave to appeal the district court’s class
certification decision. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(f). We have
jurisdiction under Rule 23(f) and 28 U.S.C. § 1292(e). We
review the district court’s class certification decision for
abuse of discretion. Lara v. First Nat’l Ins. Co. of Am., 25
F.4th 1134, 1138 (9th Cir. 2022). We review the district
court’s decision granting class certification with more
deference than we would a denial of class certification. DZ
Rsrv. v. Meta Platforms, Inc., 96 F.4th 1223, 1232 (9th Cir.
16      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


2024). Notwithstanding this deference, the district court
abuses its discretion if it “applie[s] an incorrect legal rule or
if its application of the correct legal rule [i]s based on a
‘factual finding that was illogical, implausible, or without
support in inferences that may be drawn from the facts in the
record.’” Jimenez v. Allstate Ins. Co., 765 F.3d 1161, 1164
(9th Cir. 2014) (quoting Levya v. Medline Indus. Inc., 716
F.3d 510, 513 (9th Cir. 2013)).1
                                  II
    Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure governs
class certification. “Under Rule 23, a class action may be
maintained if the four prerequisites of Rule 23(a) are met,
and the action meets one of the three kinds of actions listed
in Rule 23(b).” Van v. LLR, Inc., 61 F.4th 1053, 1062 (9th
Cir. 2023). Under Rule 23(a), the plaintiffs must establish
numerosity, typicality, and adequacy of representation—
none of which are disputed here—as well as commonality.
Commonality means that “there are questions of law or fact
common to the class.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a)(2). “An
individual question is one where members of a proposed
class will need to present evidence that varies from member
to member, while a common question is one where the same
evidence will suffice for each member to make a prima facie
showing [or] the issue is susceptible to generalized, class-
wide proof.” Tyson Foods, Inc. v. Bouaphakeo, 577 U.S.
442, 453 (2016) (citation and internal quotation marks
omitted, alteration in original). The plaintiffs here sought to
certify a damages class under Rule 23(b)(3). That provision
requires that “questions of law or fact common to class


1
  We reject as unsupported plaintiffs’ contention that defendants waived
various arguments by not raising them below.
        WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.        17


members predominate over any questions affecting only
individual members.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b)(3).
    The commonality and predominance inquiries overlap.
See Olean Wholesale Grocery Coop., Inc. v. Bumble Bee
Foods LLC, 31 F.4th 651, 664 (9th Cir. 2022) (en banc). The
commonality requirement rests on the premise that “[w]hat
matters to class certification . . . is not the raising of common
‘questions’—even in droves—but rather, the capacity of a
class-wide proceeding to generate common answers apt to
drive the resolution of the litigation.” Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
v. Dukes, 564 U.S. 338, 350 (2011) (citation and internal
quotation marks omitted). Thus, the plaintiffs’ “claims must
depend upon a common contention,” and that contention
“must be of such a nature that it is capable of classwide
resolution—which means that determination of its truth or
falsity will resolve an issue that is central to the validity of
each one of the claims in one stroke.” Id. Rule 23(b)(3), in
turn, requires that these common questions predominate
over individual ones: “The predominance inquiry asks
whether the common, aggregation-enabling, issues in the
case are more prevalent or important than the non-common,
aggregation-defeating, individual issues.” Tyson Foods, 577
U.S. at 453 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).
    As the parties seeking class certification, the plaintiffs
“must affirmatively demonstrate [their] compliance with”
Rule 23, Wal-Mart Stores, 564 U.S. at 350, by a
preponderance of the evidence, see Olean Wholesale, 31
F.4th at 665. To make their required showing, plaintiffs
“must actually prove—not simply plead—that their
proposed class satisfies each requirement of Rule 23,
including (if applicable) the predominance requirement of
Rule 23(b)(3).” Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc.,
573 U.S. 258, 275 (2014) (emphasis in original). Courts may
18       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


only certify a class if they conclude, “after a rigorous
analysis, that the prerequisites” of Rule 23 have been met.
Wal-Mart Stores, 564 U.S. at 350–51 (quoting Gen. Tel. Co.
of Sw. v. Falcon, 457 U.S. 147, 161 (1982)).
                                    III
    We start with the primary nationwide class. For this
class, the district court certified the following claims: civil
RICO, the Washington Consumer Protection Act (WCPA),
unjust enrichment, civil conspiracy, good faith and fair
dealing, and tortious interference.2 We hold that the district
court erred in certifying the nationwide class because
individual issues of causation will predominate over
common ones when evaluating whether defendants’ acts and
omissions caused the plaintiffs to enter factoring
transactions and incur their alleged injuries.
                                    A
   In “considering whether questions of law or fact
common to class members predominate,” we “begin[] . . .
with the elements of the underlying cause[s] of action.”
Olean Wholesale, 31 F.4th at 665 (quoting Erica P. John
Fund, Inc. v. Halliburton Co., 563 U.S. 804, 809 (2011))


2
  In their briefing, plaintiffs are unclear as to whether the good faith and
fair dealing and tortious inference claims are associated with the breach
of contract claim that is the subject of the subclass. The district court’s
decision groups these claims with the breach of contract claim as part of
a larger category of “contract claims,” but the decision does not explain
whether these claims were certified for either the larger class or subclass.
Similarly, in the plaintiffs’ operative complaint, only the breach of
contract claim is denoted as being asserted on behalf of the subclass. For
avoidance of doubt, we will assume for purposes of our analysis that
these two claims are also part of the primary nationwide class and will
analyze them accordingly.
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.      19


(alteration and internal quotation marks omitted). Here, the
critical element in each of the relevant claims is the
requirement that the defendants’ alleged wrongdoing caused
the plaintiffs’ alleged harm by inducing them to enter into
factoring agreements to their detriment.
    Through its statutory text allowing any person injured
“by reason” of RICO’s criminal prohibitions to bring suit, 18
U.S.C. § 1964(c), RICO requires a showing of “but for” and
proximate cause, see Hemi Grp., LLC v. City of N.Y., N.Y.,
559 U.S. 1, 9 (2010) (“[T]o state a claim under civil RICO,
the plaintiff is required to show that a RICO predicate
offense ‘not only was a “but for” cause of his injury, but was
the proximate cause as well.’” (quoting Holmes v. Sec. Inv.
Prot. Corp., 503 U.S. 258, 268 (1992))). RICO’s causation
requirement is also expressed through the legal element of
reliance. See Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indem. Co., 553
U.S. 639, 659 (2008); Painters and Allied Trades Dist.
Council 82 Health Care Fund v. Takeda Pharms. Co. Ltd.,
943 F.3d 1243, 1259–60 (9th Cir. 2019).
    Plaintiffs’ state law claims likewise require that the
defendants’ wrongdoing caused the plaintiffs’ injuries. The
WCPA requires “causation” as an element, in that “[a] causal
link is required between the unfair or deceptive acts and the
injury suffered by plaintiff.” Hangman Ridge Training
Stables, Inc. v. Safeco Title Ins. Co., 719 P.2d 531, 539
(Wash. 1986); see also, e.g., Trader Joe’s Co. v. Hallatt, 835
F.3d 960, 976 (9th Cir. 2016) (listing causation as an element
of a WCPA claim). For civil conspiracy, the plaintiffs must
prove “(1) two or more people combined to accomplish an
unlawful purpose, or combined to accomplish a lawful
purpose by unlawful means; and (2) the conspirators entered
into an agreement to accomplish the conspiracy.” All Star
Gas, Inc. of Wash. v. Bechard, 998 P.2d 367, 372 (Wash. Ct.
20     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


App. 2000) (emphasis added). As plaintiffs explain in their
answering brief, Washington law governing civil conspiracy
claims “requires that the defendants’ unlawful purpose or
unlawful means proximately resulted in the plaintiffs’
harm.” See also Couie v. Local Union No. 1849 United
Broth. of Carpenters and Joiners of Am., 316 P.2d 473, 478
(Wash. 1957). Tortious interference likewise requires “an
improper purpose or the use of improper means by the
defendant that caused the interference.” Eugster v. City of
Spokane, 91 P.3d 117, 123 (Wash. Ct. App. 2004).
    Finally, although Washington law does not include an
express causation requirement in its articulation of the
elements of the torts of unjust enrichment and breach of the
duty of good faith and fair dealing, those claims of necessity
require a causal link between the alleged wrong and the
plaintiffs’ harm. See generally Mosier v. Stonefield
Josephson, Inc., 815 F.3d 1161, 1173 (9th Cir. 2016)
(explaining that the plaintiff’s “failure to come forward with
any substantial evidence of causation . . . is also fatal to his
claim of unjust enrichment”); Sitton v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co., 63 P.3d 198, 206 (Wash. Ct. App. 2003) (reversing
a class action trial plan on a good faith and fair dealing claim
where the plan “allows the jury to make a damages award
without requiring individual claimants to establish causation
and damages” and the “effect of the plan is to eliminate
causation as an element of plaintiffs’ bad faith” claim). This
explains why the relevant sections in plaintiffs’ operative
complaint allege at length how the defendants’ supposedly
unjust and bad faith conduct led to the plaintiffs entering the
factoring transactions, to their detriment.
   Ultimately, these additional claims are just different
ways of restating plaintiffs’ core theory: that defendants
deceived    annuitants     into   unfavorable     factoring
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.      21


arrangements. To the extent plaintiffs argue that any of their
state law theories would permit them to prevail on a claim
asserting only freestanding wrongs that had no bearing on
their alleged injuries or did not cause them, they cite no
Washington law that would support such an unmoored
theory.
    Plaintiffs point out that each of their claims includes
other elements in addition to causation, such as whether
defendants committed “unfair” or “deceptive” business
practices or engaged in conduct that was otherwise “unjust.”
But even if plaintiffs demonstrate that there are common
questions of law or fact with respect to these other elements,
this does not perforce establish that these questions
predominate over individualized questions of causation.
Unjust enrichment, for example, requires consideration of
the full “circumstances” of the transaction, Young v. Young,
191 P.3d 1258, 1262 (Wash. 2008), not merely those aspects
of the arrangement that plaintiffs claim are inequitable.
Focusing on one element of a state law claim to the exclusion
of others—most notably here, the requirement of
causation—at most generates a potential common question,
not one that necessarily predominates in any given case. For
purposes of the Rule 23 analysis, plaintiffs must
demonstrate, on a class-wide basis through common proof,
see Wal-Mart Stores, 564 U.S. at 349–50; Olean Wholesale,
31 F.4th at 666, that defendants’ alleged wrongdoing caused
plaintiffs’ injuries, and that such common questions of
causation predominate over any individualized ones.
                              B
    In this case, we hold that certification of the primary
nationwide class was legally improper because
22     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


individualized issues of causation will predominate. See
Tyson Foods, 577 U.S. at 453.
     To support causation, plaintiffs point to the defendants’
allegedly undisclosed conflict of interest, exploitative
leveraging of their knowledge of the annuitants’ financial
circumstances, and dissemination of misleading marketing
materials.     The record indicates, however, that the
defendants’ allegedly uniform course of conduct was not as
uniform as plaintiffs suggest. For example, the marketing
materials on which plaintiffs base their misrepresentation
theory were not uniform in content over time, nor did every
annuitant receive them (plaintiff White himself stopped
receiving mail from the defendants in the early 2000s). The
defendants also communicated with each annuitant
individually, through ways other than mass marketing
materials. Some annuitants, meanwhile, were the primary
initiators of their factoring transactions and contacted the
defendants to get the process underway. The course of
interactions that plaintiffs claim was unlawful was a good
deal more varied than they indicate.
    But even assuming defendants engaged in uniform
conduct, plaintiffs have not shown there is a common
question whether such conduct improperly induced plaintiffs
to enter into factoring agreements to their detriment. Here,
resolving the critical element of causation will require
consideration of individualized issues that swamp the
assertedly common ones. Because “individualized causation
issues would predominate in this case,” Poulos v. Caesars
World, Inc., 379 F.3d 654, 658 (9th Cir. 2004), any
“common, aggregation-enabling, issues” are not “more
prevalent . . . than the non-common, aggregation-defeating,
individual issues,” Tyson Foods, 577 U.S. at 453 (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted).
        WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.        23


    The reason lies in the nature of the factoring transactions
and the state court processes that led to their approval. The
record bears out the highly individualized circumstances that
led the plaintiffs to factor their SSAs, and the highly
individualized state proceedings that evaluated whether
these transactions were in particular plaintiffs’ best interests.
As we described above, plaintiff White, who had already
factored with other companies, contacted defendants
because he needed money for his wedding and the birth of
his child. Plaintiff Nadeau wanted immediate funds to pay
back taxes on an apartment building to avoid its foreclosure
and to fix the roof of his home. Both plaintiffs had numerous
one-one-one discussions with the defendants.               Both
plaintiffs signed disclosures and affidavits acknowledging
the defendants’ respective roles in the SSAs and factoring
arrangements and their right to seek independent
professional advice. Both plaintiffs repeatedly attested that
the factoring transactions were in their best interests. Both
were adamant that they wanted these arrangements. And
state courts independently reviewed each plaintiff’s
factoring agreement in specialized proceedings, approving a
particular arrangement only after finding that it complied
with applicable law (including disclosure requirements) and
was in the plaintiff’s best interests.
    Any assessment of whether defendants’ alleged acts and
omissions caused the plaintiffs to enter the factoring
transactions, or led to them accepting inferior factoring deals
than they otherwise would have absent the alleged
misconduct, would require an analysis of each plaintiff’s
individual circumstances—including their understanding of
the transaction and motivations. The result would be 2,000
mini-trials on causation. This is therefore a situation in
which “the individual circumstances of particular class
24     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


members” will clearly “bear on” the causation inquiry.
Amgen Inc. v. Conn. Ret. Plans and Trust Funds, 568 U.S.
455, 460 (2013). Indeed, the individual circumstances
would play a central role in that inquiry. See Poulos, 379
F.3d at 665 (affirming the denial of class certification
because, “[i]n this case, individualized reliance issues
related to plaintiffs’ knowledge, motivations, and
expectations bear heavily on the causation analysis”).
    To determine whether defendants’ conduct induced
plaintiffs to enter into a factoring agreement to their
detriment, the court would need to examine the unique
circumstances that led the annuitant to consider factoring,
the details of each plaintiff’s one-on-one communications
with the defendants, and the disclosures made to each
plaintiff, including about the defendants’ respective roles
(White and Nadeau both received such information). See
Robinson v. Texas Auto. Dealers Ass’n, 387 F.3d 416, 424
(5th Cir. 2004) (explaining that class certification is
improper when “a court would have to hear evidence
regarding each purported class member and his transaction”
because “[s]uch an individual examination would destroy
any alleged predominance present in the proposed class”).
And, perhaps most critically from a causation standpoint, a
court evaluating plaintiffs’ legal theories would need to
consider the state court proceedings that, after the required
inquiries, approved the factoring transactions as in the
annuitants’ best interests.      Those proceedings were
necessarily individualized to each annuitant, and they would
also differ across states based on differences in the
underlying state SSPAs. What was said and done in these
state court proceedings is an important and necessary part of
the causal chain that led to the plaintiffs factoring their
SSAs, and is crucial to the determination of whether the
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.        25


plaintiffs accepted a worse deal than they otherwise would
have. Each individual case would need to be examined to
determine whether, and to what extent, the individualized
circumstances of each plaintiff and their state court
proceedings overrode defendants’ alleged misconduct.
    Thus,     whether       the      defendants’      alleged
misrepresentations and omissions induced plaintiffs to enter
into unfavorable factoring arrangements cannot be answered
without examining the full extent of the plaintiffs’
circumstances, their communications with defendants, their
understanding of the deals they were entering, and the
proceedings in the state courts that approved them. Given
the personalized nature of the factoring transactions and the
accompanying state court review process, the causal chain
here is simply too individualized and multi-dimensional to
permit the conclusion that the assertedly common issues are
more prevalent than the non-common ones. See Tyson
Foods, 577 U.S. at 453.
                               C
    The district court reached a different conclusion by
applying a “common sense inference of reliance.” In the
district court’s view, “[c]ommon, uniform marketing
materials that are misleading and designed to capitalize on a
pre-existing relationship give rise to a common sense
inference that no individual would factor with a company
whose rates are subpar and whose transactions are not in the
individual’s best interest, unless that individual relied on the
representations.” In other words, the district court concluded
there was no need to conduct an individualized inquiry into
whether defendants’ conduct had induced a particular
plaintiff into entering a factoring agreement to the plaintiff’s
26     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


detriment because under the circumstances, a trier of fact
could reasonably infer as much.
    This reasoning, we respectfully conclude, reflects legal
error. Even if each plaintiff were exposed to some uniform
information, it is difficult on these facts to make a common
sense inference that this information induced the plaintiff to
enter into a factoring agreement. Nor can we surmise, as the
district court did, that the factoring transactions were “not in
the individual’s best interest,” when the state courts that
approved these transactions concluded the opposite.
Regardless, any after the fact determination that factoring
was not in the annuitants’ best interests would require an
analysis of the individual circumstances of each transaction.
    But more broadly, we conclude that a “common sense
inference of reliance”—or common sense inference of
causation (reliance being one way to prove causation)—is
not appropriate on these facts. The district court reached its
conclusion by relying on cases from other circuits that
involved more linear chains of causation. Those cases are
materially different from this one.
    For example, in In re U.S. Foodservice Inc. Pricing
Litig., 729 F.3d 108 (2d Cir. 2013), the Second Circuit
considered a straightforward case of fraudulent overbilling.
It held that “[i]n cases involving fraudulent overbilling,” the
fact of payment can reflect “circumstantial proof of reliance
based on the reasonable inference that customers who pay
the amount specified in an inflated invoice would not have
done so absent reliance upon the invoice’s implicit
representation that the invoiced amount was honestly owed.”
Id. at 120. Similarly, the Eleventh Circuit in Klay v.
Humana, Inc., 382 F.3d 1241, 1259 (11th Cir. 2004),
abrogated in part on other grounds as recognized in Green-
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.       27


Cooper v. Brinker Int’l, Inc., 73 F.4th 883, 893 (11th Cir.
2023), considered a “simpl[e]” case of misrepresentation
where physicians were not paid what they were told they
would be. A common sense inference of reliance was
appropriate because the plaintiffs “assumed they would be
paid the amounts they were due.” Id.
    We have had limited occasion to address the
permissibility of this kind of inference, but we have not
applied it when the causal inquiry is more complex. Most
particularly, in Poulos, we considered a putative class action
brought on behalf of patrons who claimed that casinos had
misled them about their opportunities to win at video poker
and electronic slot machines by misrepresenting that the
newer electronic games operated like the traditional games
on which they were based. 379 F.3d at 659–60. Citing “the
unique nature of gambling transactions,” we held that
individualized issues of causation predominated because
“[g]amblers do not share a common universe of knowledge
and expectations.” Id. at 665. We further held that any
common sense inference of reliance based on circumstantial
evidence was likewise unjustified. Id. at 667–68. Unlike
cases where consumers “‘pa[id] a fee for a service’” that was
simply unavailable—where “[t]he only logical explanation
for such behavior is that the class members relied on
defendants’ representation”—“[n]o such ‘common sense’ or
‘logical explanation’ serves to link the gambling patrons and
their use of gaming machines.” Id. at 668 (alteration
omitted) (quoting Peterson v. H & R Block Tax Servs., Inc.,
174 F.R.D. 78, 85 (N.D. Ill. 1997)).
    In Owino v. CoreCivic, Inc., 60 F.4th 437 (9th Cir.
2022), as amended, by contrast, we concluded, albeit in a
brief discussion, that a class-wide inference of causation was
appropriate. Id. at 446. In that case, detainees sued a private
28      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


immigration detention center alleging that they were forced
to perform labor against their will and without
compensation. Id. at 441. The plaintiffs pointed specifically
to the detention center’s written policies, which required
detainees to engage in various tasks. Id. at 442. We held
that the plaintiffs had established proof of causation under
the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of
2000, 18 U.S.C. § 1589 et seq., because “a factfinder could
reasonably draw a class-wide causation inference” from the
detention center’s uniform policies. Owino, 60 F.4th at 446.
       Poulos and Owino bear out our observation that
whether a class-wide inference of reliance or causation is
appropriate “depends on the context.” Id. (citing Poulos,
379 F.3d at 665–66). We agree with the Tenth Circuit that a
class-wide inference of causation or reliance is inappropriate
when the “unique facts surrounding the class claims . . .
involve significant individualized or idiosyncratic elements
that reasonably preclude the predomination of common
questions.” CGC Holding Co. v. Broad and Cassel, 773
F.3d 1076, 1092 (10th Cir. 2014).
    That is the case here. A presumption of causation or
reliance is not appropriate in the matter before us because
significant individualized issues of causation predominate
over any common ones. As in Poulos, this is not a situation
where “[t]he only logical explanation for [the plaintiffs’]
behavior is that the class members relied on [defendants’]
representation[s].” 379 F.3d at 668 (internal quotation
marks omitted, third alteration in original); see also id. at 665
(“Even taking the Class Representatives’ allegations as true,
however, and assuming that all plaintiffs in the proposed
classes suffered financial loss or other concrete injury as a
consequence of playing the machines, it does not necessarily
follow that plaintiffs’ injuries are causally linked to the
        WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.               29


Casinos’ alleged misrepresentations.”). Nor is this case
comparable to ones involving simple fraudulent overbilling,
in which the bare fact of payment can demonstrate causation.
    The causal story here is, instead, quite complex. For as
we have discussed, this case presents significant
individualized issues of causation rooted in the personal
circumstance-driven factoring transactions and the state
court proceedings that validated them. Presuming that
defendant’s alleged misrepresentations and omissions
induced plaintiffs to enter into the factoring agreements to
their detriment would improperly assume away the intensive
causation issues specific to each putative class member.3




3
  Plaintiffs similarly argue that they are entitled to a presumption of
causation and reliance under the WCPA. Washington law recognizes
such a rebuttable presumption for claims grounded in omissions,
premised on the idea that otherwise the person seeking relief would have
to prove a negative. Deegan v. Windermere Real Estate/Ctr.-Isle, Inc.,
391 P.3d 582, 587–88 (Wash. Ct. App. 2017). But the plaintiffs’ claims
here are not limited to omissions and turn significantly on defendants’
alleged misrepresentations. Plaintiffs do not identify Washington law
that applies a presumption of causation or reliance in cases involving
both misrepresentations and omissions. And we have explained in other
contexts that these presumptions “appl[y] only in cases primarily
involving ‘a failure to disclose’—that is, cases based on omissions as
opposed to affirmative misrepresentations.” Poulos, 379 F.3d at 666
(citing Affiliated Ute Citizens of Utah v. United States, 406 U.S. 128,
153–54 (1972)). In “mixed claims” such as this, the plaintiffs “would
not be entitled to the presumption.” Id.; see also In re Volkswagen
“Clean Diesel” Mktg., Sales Practices, and Prods. Liability Litig., 2
F.4th 1199, 1202 (9th Cir. 2021) (holding in securities fraud case that
presumption of reliance did not apply because the allegations “cannot be
characterized primarily as claims of omission”). Plaintiffs identify no
WCPA case law following a different approach.
30     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


    In sum, because individualized causation issues
predominate over any common ones, the district court erred
in certifying the principal nationwide class.
                              IV
    The district court also certified a nationwide subclass of
plaintiffs whose original settlement agreements with their
tortfeasors contained language stating that the annuitant
lacked the power to assign SSA payments. Representative
“power language” from one contract reads as follows: “The
Claimant . . . shall not have the power to sell, mortgage,
anticipate or encumber these payments, or any part thereof,
by assignment or otherwise.”
    Defendants were not parties to these contracts. Instead,
plaintiffs claim that because SABSCO took on the duties to
make SSA payments, “SABSCO stepped into the shoes of
the defendant that was an original party to each Power
Language Settlement Agreement.” Plaintiffs’ breach of
contract claim, which is brought only against SABSCO,
alleges that SABSCO violated the “no power” anti-
assignment provisions when it participated in factoring
transactions with the annuitants. The district court certified
this claim (and, it appears, the breach of the duty of good
faith and tortious interference claims) as a nationwide
subclass. We question whether a plaintiff who agreed not to
assign his or her right to payments from a tortfeasor, but then
nevertheless made such an assignment, can bring a breach of
contract action against a third party that is fulfilling the
tortfeasor’s duty to make the payments. But even assuming
SABSCO could be liable for the breach of the tortfeasor-
claimant settlement agreement, we hold that the record does
not support certification of the subclass as defined.
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.      31


    We may briefly dispense with some of the defendants’
arguments at the outset. Although the contracts at issue do
differ in their particulars, the language of the “no power”
provisions is substantially the same, motivated, in no small
part, by the fact that the contracts were mirroring a federal
prohibition against accelerating, deferring, increasing, or
decreasing annuity payments. See 26 U.S.C. § 130(c)(2).
Further, as the district court noted, plaintiffs “have limited
the class to those contracts which include the limitation on
transfers,” i.e., those contracts with “no power” language.
The language of the contracts is thus insufficient to preclude
class certification.
     But a more substantial problem lies in the law that will
govern the anti-assignment provisions, given the apparent
variations in state law on the enforceability of anti-
assignment provisions in structured settlement agreements.
We have explained that “‘understanding which law will
apply before making a predominance determination is
important when there are variations in applicable state law,’”
and that “potentially varying state laws may defeat
predominance in certain circumstances.” Senne v. Kansas
City Royals Baseball Corp., 934 F.3d 918, 928 (9th Cir.
2019) (alteration omitted) (quoting Zinser v. Accufix Rsrch.
Inst., Inc., 253 F.3d 1180, 1189 (9th Cir. 2001), as amended
at 273 F.3d 1266 (9th Cir. 2001)). Indeed, “[w]e have been
particularly concerned about the impact of choice-of-law
inquiries in nationwide consumer class actions . . . .” Id.
(first citing Mazza v. Am. Honda Motor Co., 666 F.3d 581,
585, 591–94 (9th Cir. 2012); and then citing Zinser, 253 F.3d
at 1184–90); see also Mazza, 666 F.3d at 596 (“Because the
law of multiple jurisdictions applies . . . variances in state
law overwhelm common issues and preclude predominance
for a single nationwide class.”); Pilgrim v. Universal Health
32      WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


Card, LLC, 660 F.3d 943, 948–49 (6th Cir. 2011) (collecting
Third, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Ninth Circuit cases in
which courts “refused to allow a nationwide class covered
by the laws of different States”).
    The need to apply the law of different states raises
questions of whether individualized issues predominate and
how a matter can be fairly managed as a class action. See id.
at 948; Zinser, 253 F.3d at 1189; see also Jabbari v. Farmer,
965 F.3d 1001, 1006 (9th Cir. 2020) (“The potential
applicability of variations in state law can complicate the
predominance determination.”). And it is the plaintiffs’
burden at the Rule 23 stage to demonstrate predominance in
the face of the need to apply multiple states’ laws. See
Zinser, 253 F.3d at 1189; see also Wal-Mart Stores, 564 U.S.
at 350.
    In this case, the record contains four SSA settlement
agreements, three of which have choice of law provisions,
each of which calls for the application of the laws of a
different state—Arizona, California, and Michigan. The
fourth agreement lacks any choice of law provision. In an
earlier partial summary judgment ruling in this case, the
district court ruled that in the absence of a choice of law
provision, Washington law would govern (meaning that
Washington law governs the fourth agreement here), but that
valid choice of provisions in the contracts would be honored.
In its class certification decision, the district court similarly
explained that “[t]o the extent there is a valid and
         WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.                  33


enforceable choice of law provision, the Court will apply the
law provided for in the contract.”4
    As the record stands, then, at least four different states’
laws will need to be applied to the subclass, and that is based
only on the four agreements before us. It would appear many
more states’ laws may also be implicated. Indeed, materials
in the record indicate that the annuitants hail from a wide
array of different states, and some of the settlement
agreements have choice of law provisions denoting the law
of a state other than the location where the contract was
executed. Taken as a whole, the evidence in the record to
date is sufficient to raise a substantial question of whether
the plaintiffs can demonstrate predominance given the need
to apply multiple states’ laws. See Van, 61 F.4th at 1068–69
(holding that where “at least eighteen” of the 13,680
discounts reflected a material difference, this “summon[ed]
the      spectre      of      class-member-by-class-member
adjudication,” “even though” it was based on “only a small
number of invoices”).
    And in this case, the specific difficulty that arises from
the need to apply the laws of different states to the subclass
is that state law may vary on the enforceability of anti-
assignment provisions in SSA agreements. The district court
itself recognized that “courts have come out differently as to
the enforceability of antiassignment provisions.” As one
state supreme court has described it,



4
  The district court’s earlier summary judgment ruling on choice of law
is not directly before us, but we discuss it because it informed the court’s
later certification of the subclass. We do not consider here whether the
district court correctly concluded that, in the absence of a choice of law
provision, Washington law would govern the contract-based claims.
34     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


       The courts addressing the precise issue of
       whether an anti-assignment provision in a
       structured settlement agreement prohibiting
       the alienation of future payments made under
       an annuity policy is enforceable have reached
       differing results. No clear majority has
       emerged. Rather, the decisions are divided
       almost evenly.
       The jurisdictions striking anti-assignment
       provisions have done so: on the basis that no
       harm comes to the party obligated to perform
       by the mere assignment of contractual
       payments; due to a lack of specific language
       binding the tort victim to assignment
       restrictions; or because the anti-assignment
       provisions circumscribe the right, but not the
       power, to assign. The courts enforcing anti-
       assignment provisions in the structured
       settlement context have grounded their
       decisions on: the premise that such
       provisions, included for the benefit of the
       insurer, could not be waived by the
       annuitant; policy arguments supporting
       enforcement of the provisions in relation to
       structured settlements; or the clear language
       of the provision taking it out of the general
       rule of assignability.

In re Kaufman, 37 P.3d 845, 852–53 (Okla. 2001) (footnotes
and citations omitted) (holding that unambiguous anti-
assignment provisions in SSAs are valid but that annuitant
could not enforce it against his assignee); see also In re
Rapid Settlements Ltd’s Application for Approval of
       WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.       35


Structured Settlement Payment Rights v. Symetra Assigned
Benefits Serv. Co., 136 P.3d 765, 775 (Wash. Ct. App. 2006)
(“Courts in other jurisdictions have taken differing
approaches to antiassignment clauses in structured
settlement agreements.”); Philip Eden, et. al, Evaluation of
Structured Settlements, 31 Am. Jur. Trials 595 §§ 35.1–35.4
(May 2024) (collecting cases concerning assignments of
structured settlement rights and describing varying
approaches taken in cases concerning enforceability and the
effect of SSPAs on assignments); Jay M. Zitter,
Construction and Application of State Structured Settlement
Protection Acts, 27 A.L.R.6th 323 §§ 11–13 (originally
published 2007, updated 2024) (collecting cases reflecting
different approaches on enforceability and other issues
relating to assignments).
    The plaintiffs maintain that cases finding anti-
assignment clauses ineffective did not involve the situation
here, in which the defendants had conflicted roles. But
plaintiffs point to no authority from any jurisdiction
addressing the enforceability of anti-assignment clauses in
these circumstances, and resolution of that question would
itself require predictive analysis of each state’s laws. This
only underscores the complexity of discerning the
substantive rules of law that will apply to the enforceability
question in the case of each contract.
    We do not undertake a full examination of whether and
how the laws across all fifty states may differ on the question
of whether and when an anti-assignment provision in an SSA
can be enforced, or whether states would enforce them in the
context of this case. It suffices for present purposes that
there is reason to believe that the choice of law issues here
are complex, and plaintiffs have not demonstrated how the
subclass could be certified without nuanced consideration of
36     WHITE V. SYMETRA ASSIGNED BENEFITS SERVICE CO.


different states’ laws. See Zinser, 253 F.3d at 1190 (“The
complexity of the trial would be further exacerbated to the
extent that the laws of forty-eight states must be consulted to
answer such questions.”). With such a significant question
about predominance persisting, we hold that the plaintiffs
did not carry their Rule 23 burden to “actually prove—not
simply plead—that their proposed class satisfies each
requirement of Rule 23.” Halliburton Co., 573 U.S. at 275.
As the record presently stands, the subclass cannot be
certified consistent with Rule 23.
                      *       *       *
    For the foregoing reasons, the district court’s class
certification decision is
     REVERSED.