                FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,                 No. 23-2200
                                            D.C. No.
           Plaintiff - Appellee,
                                         2:21-cr-00485-
 v.
                                             DSF-1
                                        Central District of
MARK RIDLEY-THOMAS,
                                           California,
                                          Los Angeles
           Defendant - Appellant.
                                            OPINION

      Appeal from the United States District Court
         for the Central District of California
       Dale S. Fischer, District Judge, Presiding

       Argued and Submitted November 21, 2024
                 Pasadena, California

                 Filed August 3, 2026

 Before: Johnnie B. Rawlinson, Morgan B. Christen, and
         Anthony D. Johnstone, Circuit Judges.
2                     USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


                          SUMMARY*

                         Criminal Law
    The panel affirmed Mark Ridley-Thomas’s convictions
for one count of conspiracy in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371,
one count of bribery concerning programs receiving federal
funds in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B), and five
counts of honest services mail and wire fraud in violation of
18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343, 1346, and 2(b).
    Ridley-Thomas is a former Supervisor on the Los
Angeles County Board of Supervisors. The convictions
were based on a scheme in which Marilyn Flynn, the then-
Dean of the School of Social Work at the University of
Southern California (USC), facilitated a $100,000 donation
of university funds to the nonprofit that employed Ridley-
Thomas’s son Sebastian in exchange for Ridley-Thomas
voting in favor of a “telehealth contract” between the County
and USC.
    The panel held that the district court did not err in
denying Ridley-Thomas’s motion for judgment of acquittal
for his honest service fraud convictions. The service of
funneling $100,000 from Ridley-Thomas to USC to United
Ways for Sebastian’s benefit was a “thing of value”
sufficient to support the § 1346 convictions. Ridley-
Thomas’s argument that “perceived reputational benefit”
cannot be a “thing of value” misstates the Government’s
theory. Section 1346 contains neither a requirement that a
public official derive some type of “personal enrichment”
nor a requirement that each participant in the scheme

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     3


personally benefit. The Government was not required to
present direct evidence of Ridley-Thomas’s constituents’
approval or disapproval of his actions to support a conviction
for honest services fraud, and the evidence presented at trial
was sufficient evidence to support a finding of materiality.
    The panel held that the district court did not err in
denying Ridley-Thomas’s motion for judgment of acquittal
for his bribery conviction. The funneling scheme was a
“thing of value” sufficient to support a violation of
§ 666(a)(1)(B), and sufficient evidence supports a finding
that the transaction involved “anything of value of $5,000 or
more.”
    The panel concluded that the district court committed no
error instructional error, rejecting Ridley-Scott’s contentions
concerning intent to deceive, conflation of gratuities and
bribery, quid pro quo, and “lawful ingratiation.”
   Because the honest services fraud and federal bribery
convictions were predicated on legally valid objects, the
panel affirmed the related conspiracy conviction.
    Ridley-Thomas contended that a combination of race
and gender improperly animated the Government’s use of
peremptory strikes on the only two Black female prospective
jurors. The panel declined to extend Batson v. Kentucky, 476
U.S. 79 (1986), to intersectional considerations,
and concluded that the district court did not clearly err in
rejecting Ridley-Thomas’s challenges to the strikes.
4                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


                       COUNSEL
Lindsey G. Dotson (argued), Thomas F. Rybarczyk, Michael
J. Morse, and Elana S. Artson, Assistant United States
Attorneys; Bram M. Alden and Mack E. Jenkins, Assistant
United States Attorneys, Chiefs, Criminal Appeals Section;
E. Martin Estrada, United States Attorney; Office of the
United States Attorney, United States Department of Justice,
Los Angeles, California; for Plaintiff-Appellee.
Alyssa D. Bell (argued), Michael V. Schafler, and Neil S.
Jahss, Cohen Williams LLP, Los Angeles, California;
Daralyn J. Durie and Galia Amram, Morrison & Foerster
LLP, San Francisco, California; Paul J. Watford, Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, Los Angeles, California; Erwin
Chemerinsky, University of California Berkeley School of
Law, Berkeley, California; for Defendant-Appellant.
Nadia A. Sarkis, Mira Hashmall, and Louis R. Miller, Miller
Barondess LLP, Los Angeles, California, for Amici Curiae
Former California Officials.
Houston Goddard, Goddard Pope PLLC, Nashville,
Tennessee; Miles Pope, Goddard Pope PLLC, Boise, Idaho;
Margaret A. Farrand, Deputy Federal Public Defender;
Cuauhtémoc Ortega, Federal Public Defender; Office of the
Federal Public Defender, Los Angeles, California; for Amici
Curiae Ninth Circuit Federal Public and Community
Defenders.
S. Stan Chiueh, Elizabeth Bierut, Dania Bardavid, and
Caroline McHugh, Friedman Kaplan Seiler Adelman &
Robbins LLP, New York, New York; Robert S. Chang, Fred
T. Korematsu Center for Law and Equality, Seattle
University School of Law, Seattle, Washington; for Amici
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                    5


Curiae Black Law Professors and Historians and Justice
Centers.



                      PER CURIAM

PER CURIAM:

    Mark Ridley-Thomas (Ridley-Thomas), a former
Supervisor on the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
(Board of Supervisors), appeals his convictions for one
count of conspiracy in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371, one
count of bribery concerning programs receiving federal
funds in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B), and five
counts of honest services mail and wire fraud in violation of
18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343, 1346, and 2(b). The convictions
stemmed from charges related to a quid pro quo scheme
between Ridley-Thomas and Marilyn Flynn (Flynn), the
then-Dean of the School of Social Work at the University of
Southern California (USC), for the benefit of Ridley-
Thomas’s son Sebastian. Of the Government’s honest
services fraud and bribery quid pro quo theories, the jury
rejected all but one: that Flynn facilitated a $100,000
donation of university funds to the nonprofit that employed
Sebastian in exchange for Ridley-Thomas voting in favor of
a “telehealth contract” between the County and USC. For
the reasons discussed below, we affirm the convictions.
I. BACKGROUND
    Ridley-Thomas served on the Board of Supervisors from
2008 to 2020. The five-member Board of Supervisors
performs executive, legislative, and quasi-judicial duties for
Los Angeles County, and controls the County’s $30+ billion
6                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


budget. Ridley-Thomas served as chair of the Board of
Supervisors from December 2012 through December 2013,
and December 2016 through December 2017. During this
time, he supported several contracts by which USC’s School
of Social Work provided services for County constituents.
    Ridley-Thomas’s son Sebastian served as a member of
the California State Assembly from 2013 to 2017. When
Sebastian resigned from the Assembly, he was the subject of
two non-public sexual harassment complaints for conduct
that allegedly occurred in 2016 and 2017.
    The Government’s evidence at trial showed that Ridley-
Thomas helped Sebastian arrange educational and
professional opportunities in the months leading up to and
following his resignation from the Assembly. Ridley-
Thomas turned to Flynn to create a landing spot for
Sebastian. At the time, Flynn was looking to correct a
multimillion-dollar budget deficit at USC’s School of Social
Work by securing lucrative County contracts, which she saw
as the school’s fiscal lifeline.
    In May 2017, Ridley-Thomas emailed Flynn, requesting
to speak on the phone. Two days later, Sebastian emailed
Flynn about setting up a meeting, and the following week,
Ridley-Thomas emailed Flynn, “We’re overdue for a lunch.
Lots to catch up on.” An article about Sebastian was linked
to the email.
    Emails that Flynn exchanged with her colleagues at USC
and with Sebastian show that Sebastian was anxious to
pursue graduate-level studies at USC’s School of Social
Work and School of Public Policy. And USC became
interested in admitting him. The University did not offer the
program Sebastian was interested in pursuing, but Flynn
represented that she would coordinate with Jack Knott, Dean
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     7


of the USC School of Public Policy, to develop a joint degree
program for him. On May 26, 2017, Flynn emailed
Sebastian updating him on her efforts to secure his
admission to a joint master’s degree program with a full-
tuition scholarship, and on June 5, 2017, Flynn emailed
Mark Todd, an employee in the USC Provost’s office, about
a joint degree offer to Sebastian. Her email stated, “[w]e will
offer a full scholarship between the two schools.” Flynn
noted that the agreement was for a “full scholarship for our
funds.”
    Ridley-Thomas and Flynn stayed in close contact during
the ensuing months. On June 23, 2017, Ridley-Thomas met
with Flynn in her office at USC. During that meeting, they
discussed various USC programs that involved existing and
anticipated contracts between USC’s School of Social Work
and the County. Flynn memorialized the topics discussed
during this meeting in a letter addressed to Ridley-Thomas
dated July 23, 2017, which Flynn directed a subordinate to
hand-deliver directly to Ridley-Thomas’s office. The letter
referred to three proposals for expanding USC’s work with
the County, two of which Flynn described as “blocked” or
“stalled.”
    The first was a partnership between USC and the
“Vermont Street Reentry Center,” a facility run by the
County, with USC providing social work services. The
second was a proposed training center for the County
Probation Department, “Probation University,” with USC
providing training for the Probation Department employees.
The third was for a renewed, expanded contract from the
County for the provision of “telehealth” mental health
counseling services (Telehealth) to a broader spectrum of
clients, referred by the County, including veterans. USC’s
existing Telehealth program had called for the provision of
8                   USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


services in return for County funding, but the program was
operating at a deficit, with USC losing approximately $1
million per year. Flynn planned to increase the financial
viability of the Telehealth program by expanding the number
of clients the program could serve. The expansion would
require an amended contract, subject to approval by the
Board of Supervisors.
    Ridley-Thomas began promoting these matters before
the Board of Supervisors in mid-2017. First was the
Vermont Street Reentry Center. On July 30, 2017, after
seeing that the Board of Supervisors was considering an
agenda item involving the Vermont Street Reentry Center,
Flynn emailed a colleague that “I talked with [Ridley-
Thomas] about this, and I am very happy to see that he was
as good as his word.” A little over a week after receiving the
hand-delivered letter from Flynn, Ridley-Thomas co-
sponsored and voted in favor of an agenda item before the
Board of Supervisors involving the Vermont Street Reentry
Center.
    Next was Probation University. On October 12, 2017,
after seeing an agenda item involving the “Probation
University” program pending before the Board of
Supervisors and co-sponsored by Ridley-Thomas, Flynn
emailed a colleague “I am holding my breath . . . [Ridley-
Thomas] is really trying to deliver here.”
   Around the same time, in October 2017, Sebastian spoke
with Dean Knott and expressed an interest in teaching a class
at USC’s Public Policy School while simultaneously
pursuing a master’s degree.
    By letter dated November 28, 2017, Sebastian was
formally notified that the California State Assembly had
launched an investigation based on a “complaint concerning
                   USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                    9


[Sebastian’s] alleged conduct.” The same letter informed
Sebastian that an independent attorney investigator would
schedule a meeting with him, and that the Assembly Rules
Committee would determine next steps after the conclusion
of the investigation. One week later, on December 5, 2017,
Sebastian emailed Dean Knott stating that “Practitioner-In-
Residence” was a preferable title for his professorship, and
emails that Flynn exchanged with colleagues at USC
confirmed Sebastian and Flynn contemplated a salary of
$25,000 from the School of Social Work and a matching
amount from the School of Public Policy. Ridley-Thomas
was copied on Sebastian’s email to Knott at the School of
Public Policy. Knott responded on December 9 that, until
his meeting with Sebastian that week, he understood that
Sebastian would be working as a full-time member of the
state legislature, giving guest lectures or meeting with
students on a voluntary basis, for which the School of Public
Policy sometimes paid an honorarium. Dean Knott informed
Sebastian that it would not be possible to arrange an
employment contract before the holidays to accommodate a
January start date. Sebastian forwarded this email to Ridley-
Thomas that same day.
    On December 14, 2017, Flynn sent an email flagged as
“HIGHLY IMPORTANT – VAC enrollment of Sebastian
Ridley-Thomas.” The message asked colleagues at the
School of Social Work to expedite the admissions process
for Sebastian. Subsequent emails confirm a plan to grant a
full scholarship for Sebastian, as well as the Dean’s
Leadership Award, despite his failure to complete his
application or provide undergraduate transcripts.
    Also on December 14, 2017, Ridley-Thomas twice
called John Sherin, director of the Los Angeles County
Department of Mental Health (DMH), whose support was
10                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


needed to advance the Telehealth amendment before the
Board of Supervisors. Ridley-Thomas emailed Flynn later
that day with the subject line “John Sherin,” stating that
“He’s ready to go.”
     Within an hour of receiving Ridley-Thomas’s email
about Sherin, Flynn emailed several of her colleagues about
Sebastian’s enrollment in the joint degree master’s program
and his full-tuition scholarship, requesting that his
application be given “highest priority.” The next day, Flynn
emailed Dean Knott at the School of Public Policy, and
stated, “in the interests of showing [Ridley-Thomas] that we
can deliver, it would be provident to get [Sebastian’s] offer
letter out before the holidays.” But by email dated
December 16, 2017, Flynn notified Sebastian that it would
not be possible to deliver an offer letter before winter break.
    With Sebastian’s resignation from the Assembly
imminent, Ridley-Thomas inquired about a position for
Sebastian with the African American Civic Engagement
Project (AACEP), a non-profit organization affiliated with
Community Partners. AACEP’s financial position was poor
at that time, and on December 7, 2017, Ridley-Thomas
donated $100,000 from his campaign committee to the
organization. The President and CEO of Community
Partners, Paul Vandeventer, expressed general support for
Sebastian’s qualifications, but concern about the use of
“campaign funds” to “hire [Ridley-Thomas’s] son,”
nepotism, and being “seen as doing special favors for special
people.” On December 26, 2017, Sebastian resigned from
the California State Assembly, citing deteriorating health.
On January 9, 2018, USC offered Sebastian a full tuition
scholarship to its School of Social Work.
                   USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                   11


    By the end of January 2018, Community Partners had
returned the $100,000 payment to Ridley-Thomas and
Sebastian started his own nonprofit, the Policy, Research &
Practice Initiative (PRPI). PRPI needed a fiscal sponsor, and
Ridley-Thomas contacted Peter Manzo, President and CEO
of California United Ways (United Ways). A fiscal
sponsorship agreement between United Ways and PRPI was
approved on March 9, 2018, and signed by Sebastian.
Sebastian prepared and submitted a budget to United Ways
that proposed a $75,000 salary for himself and $67,200 for
an associate director. Sebastian shared these draft budgets
with his father. It was incumbent on PRPI to raise the
necessary funds to support the proposed budget.
    On February 16, 2018, USC offered Sebastian a faculty
appointment at the School of Public Policy. On February 23,
Flynn emailed Ridley-Thomas about the Telehealth contract
amendment that was on the Board of Supervisors’ agenda
for the following week. Flynn’s email outlined several of
her desired amendments to the contract. Ridley-Thomas
responded to Flynn’s email with “Your wish is my
command.” Though Sebastian had no connection to the
Telehealth amendment, Ridley-Thomas copied him on this
email.
    By the beginning of April 2018, the Telehealth
amendment was not yet approved by the Board of
Supervisors, and emails between Flynn and her colleagues
on April 1 revealed that Flynn was of the view that the
School of Social Work was approaching a critical point in
attempting to get the Telehealth amendment approved. Flynn
wrote that a better strategy was needed “for ensuring that we
don’t lose this very important opportunity.” On April 20,
2018, Ridley-Thomas contacted Flynn by phone, and a series
12                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


of phone calls ensued among Ridley-Thomas, Flynn, and
John Sherin between April 22 and April 23.
    On April 26, Ridley-Thomas and Flynn met in person.
Flynn’s USC lobbying activity report listed a meeting with
Ridley-Thomas “to discuss a gift agreement.” Shortly after
that meeting, Flynn told USC Executive Vice Dean John
Clapp that “we’re going to get the Telehealth contract,”
adding that she “had to do a little favor to get it.”
    Ridley-Thomas donated $100,000 from his Committee
for a Better L.A. to the USC School of Social Work on May
2, 2018. A letter accompanying the donation stated, “these
funds can be used at your discretion in order to best facilitate
the impressive policy and practical work of the School and
its impact in the community.” USC formally thanked
Ridley-Thomas for the donation and deposited the check.
Despite his statement that the funds were to be used at USC’s
discretion, Ridley-Thomas sent an email to Flynn the day
after he made the donation stating: “[a]t this point it is
necessary to act with dispatch” to facilitate the hiring of
PRPI’s assistant director, which should happen “in a timely
manner—no later than May 15th.” Sebastian was copied on
this email to Flynn.
     Flynn acted swiftly to meet Ridley-Thomas’s requested
May 15 deadline. Within about fifteen minutes, she sent a
message to a program administrator, flagged as “URGENT.”
It read, “I will explain later, but it is urgent that we issue a
sponsorship to United Way of California for $100,000 and
that it be received by May 15 if at all possible.” The
administrator relayed that there were not sufficient funds in
the account over which she had control, and the funds would
have to come from an account at the “main office.” Flynn
began communicating with others within the administration
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     13


to facilitate the transfer. In doing so, she made several
misrepresentations to colleagues at USC regarding the
forthcoming $100,000 payment from USC to United Ways
for PRPI. For instance, she represented that United Ways
was a vendor providing services to USC. She also
represented that United Ways intended to use the $100,000
payment for a survey, and concealed that the money would
be used in part to pay a third party’s salary. The use of
university funds to pay a third party’s salary directly violated
USC policy. In the end, one week after USC received the
$100,000 payment from Ridley-Thomas, USC issued a
$100,000 check to United Ways.
    On July 31, 2018, Ridley-Thomas voted in favor of the
amended Telehealth contract, which included every
expanded provision Flynn had requested.            After a
whistleblower raised concerns about the $100,000 payment
to United Ways, USC opened an internal investigation that
resulted in USC returning Ridley-Thomas’s $100,000
donation. USC also terminated Sebastian’s professorship
and scholarship, and made criminal referrals to the United
States Attorney and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
    Ridley-Thomas and Flynn were subsequently charged
with one count of conspiracy in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371.
Ridley-Thomas was also charged with one count of bribery
concerning programs receiving federal funds in violation of
18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B), and Flynn was charged with one
count of bribery in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(2). Both
Ridley-Thomas and Flynn were charged with seventeen
counts of honest services mail and wire fraud in violation of
18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343, 1346, and 2(b). The indictment
alleged that Ridley-Thomas engaged in a quid pro quo
bribery scheme with Flynn. The Government charged
Ridley-Thomas with seeking four benefits from Flynn and
14                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


USC for Sebastian: (1) admission to a USC master’s degree
program; (2) a full-tuition scholarship for the master’s
program; (3) a paid professorship at USC; and (4) Flynn’s
assistance in funneling a $100,000 payment from USC to a
fiscal sponsor to benefit a nonprofit organization and
Sebastian. In return, Ridley-Thomas agreed to vote in favor
of and influence others to act in favor of County contracts
that benefitted USC.
    Following a sixteen-day trial the jury convicted Ridley-
Thomas of one count each of conspiracy, federal program
bribery, and honest services mail fraud, and four counts of
honest services wire fraud. These convictions were based on
Flynn’s assistance in funneling the $100,000 payment from
Ridley-Thomas’s campaign fund to PRPI. The jury
acquitted Ridley-Thomas on the remaining honest services
fraud counts based on Sebastian’s admission, scholarship, or
professorship at USC. Ridley-Thomas filed a timely
appeal.1
II. STANDARDS OF REVIEW
    “We review de novo whether the Government’s theory
of fraud at trial was legally valid.” United States v.
Milheiser, 98 F.4th 935, 941 (9th Cir. 2024) (citation
omitted). “We review the formulation of jury instructions
for abuse of discretion, but review de novo whether those
instructions correctly state the elements of the offense and
adequately cover the defendant’s theory of the case. . . .”
United States v. Koziol, 993 F.3d 1160, 1179 (9th Cir. 2021)
(citation and internal quotation marks omitted). “[W]e
review the district court’s ruling on a Batson challenge for

1
  Flynn entered a guilty plea. She was sentenced to three years’
probation and ordered to pay a fine in the amount of $150,000.
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                    15


clear error. . . .” United States v. Hernandez-Garcia, 44
F.4th 1157, 1163 (9th Cir. 2022), as amended (citation
omitted).
III. DISCUSSION
    Ridley-Thomas challenges the Government’s theory of
honest services fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1346 and federal
programs bribery under 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B). He
argues that the Government relied on a legally invalid “thing
of value” as an element of both honest services fraud and
bribery. According to Ridley-Thomas, § 1346 criminalizes
only traditional bribery and kickback schemes, and the
“secret funneling” scheme on which the Government relied
as one of the quids—the transfer of $100,000 from Ridley-
Thomas’s ballot committee through USC to United Ways
and PRPI for Sebastian’s benefit—does not fit within this
traditional paradigm of criminal bribery schemes. Ridley-
Thomas also contends that this funneling scheme cannot
constitute a “thing of value” under § 666(a)(1)(B). We
disagree.
   A. Honest Services Fraud
    The honest services fraud statute criminalizes any
“scheme or artifice to deprive another of the intangible right
of honest services.” 18 U.S.C. § 1346. As interpreted by
this Court, “[u]nder 18 U.S.C. § 1346, an official is guilty of
honest-services fraud if he accepts something of value in
exchange for an official act.” United States v. Renzi, 769
F.3d 731, 744 (9th Cir. 2014) (citations omitted). Thus,
“[s]ection 1346 honest services convictions on a bribery
theory . . . require at least an implied quid pro quo.” United
States v. Garrido, 713 F.3d 985, 997 (9th Cir. 2013) (citation
and footnote reference omitted).
16                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


    In Skilling v. United States, 561 U.S. 358, 368 (2010),
the United States Supreme Court limited § 1346 to
encompass only “bribery and kickback schemes,” as
developed in the “core” cases decided “pre-McNally [v.
United States, 483 U.S. 350 (1987)],” which the Supreme
Court described as “fraudulent schemes to deprive another
of honest services through bribes or kickbacks supplied by a
third party who had not been deceived.” Id. at 404. The
Supreme Court expounded that the honest services fraud
statute “draws content not only from the pre-McNally case
law, but also from federal statutes proscribing—and
defining—similar crimes,” including 18 U.S.C. §§ 201(b)
(bribery of a public official), 666(a)(2) (federal programs
bribery), and 41 U.S.C. § 52(2) (defining “kickback”). Id. at
412.
    Jurors were instructed that to convict Ridley-Thomas of
honest services mail fraud, the Government was required to
prove that he “devised or knowingly participated in a scheme
or plan to deprive the residents of the County of Los Angeles
of their right of honest services;” and that “[t]he scheme or
plan consisted of a bribe in exchange for at least one official
act by [Ridley-Thomas].”
    Ridley-Thomas contends that this theory of honest
services fraud was legally invalid because perceived
reputational benefits cannot constitute a “thing of value”
under Skilling. Additionally, he asserts that the Government
failed to prove that he engaged in deception that was material
to the residents of Los Angeles County. We consider each
of these challenges in turn.
     1. Thing of Value
   When, as here, an honest services fraud conviction is
based on bribery, we often look to 18 U.S.C. § 201(b) for
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     17


guidance. See, e.g., United States v. Shen Zhen New World
I, LLC, 115 F.4th 1167, 1176–77 (9th Cir. 2024). Section
201(b)(2) provides for punishment of a public official who
“directly or indirectly, corruptly demands, seeks, receives,
accepts, or agrees to receive or accept anything of value
personally or for any other person or entity, in return for: (A)
being influenced in the performance of any official act. . . .”
18 U.S.C. § 201(b)(2).
    In Renzi, we noted that the phrase “thing of value is
defined broadly to include the value which the defendant
subjectively attaches to the items received.” See 769 F.3d at
744 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). There,
a United States Congressman was convicted of honest
services fraud for accepting a $200,000 early repayment of
a large private debt in exchange for using his influence to
move a bill through Congress. See id. We reasoned that the
payment had subjective value to Renzi “because it was a
$200,000 payment,” and “because it was the early repayment
of a large private debt.” Id. In affirming Renzi’s conviction,
we concluded that repayment of the debt “clouded [Renzi’s]
judgment in performing his official duties and deprived his
constituents of the honest services of their elected
representative.” Id.
    Although admittedly not the usual bribery scheme
involving the transfer of money to a public official, the
transfer of $100,000 from Ridley-Thomas to USC to United
Ways for Sebastian’s benefit constitutes a “thing of value”
under our precedent.        The Government’s evidence
established that Ridley-Thomas subjectively valued the
ability to transfer $100,000 from his campaign fund to
United Ways, specifically to a program that would benefit
Sebastian by providing him with employment after he
resigned from the legislature. The evidence showed that
18                   USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


Ridley-Thomas was aware of the ethics inquiry that
coincided with Sebastian’s resignation, and that he valued
the ability to indirectly transfer funds for Sebastian’s benefit,
swiftly, while concealing the source of the funds. Ridley-
Thomas argues strenuously that he broke no campaign
finance laws by making this payment, and that because he
could have made the donation directly, the funneling service
provided by USC cannot constitute a “thing of value.” But
this argument overlooks the Government’s evidence
showing that Ridley-Thomas attempted to send a payment
directly from his campaign fund to another non-profit where
Sebastian hoped to be employed, and the funds were
returned because the non-profit director was concerned
about “nepotism and being seen as doing special favors for
special people.”        Thus, contrary to Ridley-Thomas’s
contention that he could have made the payment directly
himself, the Government’s evidence showed that Ridley-
Thomas needed a third-party intermediary to effectuate the
transfer. Flynn supplied that service.
    Ridley-Thomas contends that the Government’s theory
of bribery was predicated on his desire to avoid the nepotistic
optics that had hampered his previous attempt to provide
$100,000 to AACEP through Community Partners. Ridley-
Thomas maintains that “perceived reputational benefit”
cannot be a “thing of value” under Skilling because no pre-
McNally bribery or kickback case has recognized a similar
“thing of value.” This argument misstates the Government’s
theory regarding the alleged “thing of value.” The
Government explicitly alleged in the indictment that the
transfer of $100,000 was one of the quids in the quid pro quo
scheme between Ridley-Thomas and Flynn, and it
maintained this argument throughout trial. The district court
instructed the jury that “a thing of value does not have to be
                     USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                      19


tangible,” and that the Government alleged the “thing of
value” to include one or more of: Sebastian’s admission,
scholarship, professorship, or “[a] $100,000 payment from
USC to the United Ways of California.” The Government’s
consistent argument of a quid pro quo bribery scheme fits
within Skilling’s articulation of honest services fraud cases
that are consistent with the pre-McNally core of bribery and
kickback schemes. See Skilling, 561 U.S. at 368; see also
Renzi, 769 F.3d at 744.
    Ridley-Thomas insists that a public official must derive
some type of “personal enrichment” to commit honest
services fraud. But § 1346 contains no such requirement,
and we have held that “private gain is not an element of
honest services fraud.” United States v. Inzunza, 638 F.3d
1006, 1018 (9th Cir. 2011), as amended; see also United
States v. Spano, 421 F.3d 599, 603 (7th Cir. 2005)
(concluding that “[a] participant in a scheme to defraud is
guilty even if he is an altruist and all the benefits of the fraud
accrue to other participants”).
    Nor is there a requirement that each participant in the
scheme personally benefit. Although the benefit of the
$100,000 transfer accrued most directly to Sebastian, this
benefit is a sufficient “thing of value” to support a conviction
for honest services fraud. See 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B)
(proscribing the corrupt solicitation or demanding by a
public official “for the benefit of any person”) (emphasis
added). Ridley-Thomas’s request for Flynn’s assistance
occurred while the Telehealth amendment hung in the
balance, awaiting approval from the Board of Supervisors.
Flynn’s assistance with the $100,000 cash transfer through
USC for Sebastian’s benefit was an impermissible string
attached to Ridley-Thomas’s support of the Telehealth
amendment. As in Renzi, this arrangement “clouded
20                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


[Ridley-Thomas’s] judgment in performing his official
duties and deprived [Los Angeles County residents] of the
honest services of their elected representative.” 769 F.3d at
744.
     2. Materiality of the Deception
    Ridley-Thomas contends that the Government failed to
present sufficient evidence of materiality. Stated differently,
Ridley-Thomas emphasizes the lack of evidence that his
“constituents would have wanted or expected him to disclose
the source of the donation to PRPI or Flynn’s role in
facilitating it.” We reject this argument.
    In reviewing sufficiency of the evidence, “we view the
evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and
ask whether any rational trier of fact could have found the
essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt.”
United States v. Grovo, 826 F.3d 1207, 1213-14 (9th Cir.
2016) (citation omitted).
    “[A] breach of a fiduciary duty is an element of honest
services fraud” under 18 U.S.C. § 1346. United States v.
Milovanic, 678 F.3d 713, 722 (9th Cir. 2012), as amended
(en banc) (citation omitted). To commit a breach of
fiduciary duty sufficient for an honest services fraud
conviction, the proven dishonesty must be material,
naturally tending to lead or capable of leading a reasonable
decisionmaker subjected to the dishonesty to “change its
conduct.” Id. at 727 (citation omitted). At a minimum, a
rational trier of fact could have determined that had the other
County Supervisors been aware of the scheme, one or more
of them would have changed their vote (conduct) on the
Telehealth amendment. See id.; see also Percoco v. United
States, 598 U.S. 319, 329-30 (2023) (explaining that a
government agent owes a fiduciary duty to the “government”
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     21


as well as to “the public.”); Garrido, 713 F.3d at 992 (noting
that “a public official acts as trustee for the citizens and the
State and thus owes the normal fiduciary duties of a trustee,
e.g., honesty and loyalty to them.”) (citation and alterations
omitted). The Government was not required to present direct
evidence of Ridley-Thomas’s constituents’ approval or
disapproval of his actions. See Milovanovic, 678 F.3d at
727. Rather, the Government was only required to establish
“honest services fraud committed against the public.” Id.
Viewed in the light most favorable to the Government, a
“rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements
of [honest services fraud] beyond a reasonable doubt.”
Grovo, 826 F.3d at 1213-14 (citation omitted). Thus, the
evidence presented at trial was sufficient to support a finding
of materiality. See id.
    The district court did not err in denying Ridley-Thomas’s
motion for judgment of acquittal for his honest services
fraud conviction.
   B. Federal Program Bribery
   As with the honest services fraud convictions, Ridley-
Thomas contends that the acceptance of perceived
reputational benefits is not a “thing of value” under 18
U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B).
   Section 666 provides for punishment of:

       Whoever . . . being an agent of an
       organization, or of a State, local, or Indian
       tribal government, or any agency thereof . . .
       corruptly solicits or demands for the benefit
       of any person, or accepts or agrees to accept,
       anything of value from any person, intending
       to be influenced or rewarded in connection
22                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


       with any business, transaction, or series of
       transactions    of    such     organization,
       government, or agency involving any thing of
       value of $5,000 or more.
       18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B).

    Ridley-Thomas asserts that under Skilling, the phrase
“thing of value” should be construed the same in § 1346 and
in § 666. The Supreme Court has noted the similarities
between federal programs bribery under § 666(a) and similar
criminal statutes. See Skilling, 561 U.S. at 412-13. As
mentioned, Skilling recognized that the honest services fraud
statute    “draws      content . . . from   federal    statutes
proscribing—and defining—similar crimes,” such as 18
U.S.C. §§ 666(a)(2) and 201(b). Id. at 412. And, as
discussed, we have held that “thing of value” in § 1346
includes the objective value and “the value which the
defendant subjectively attaches to the items received.”
Renzi, 769 F.3d at 744 (citation omitted). Similarly, the
Supreme Court has held that “anything of value” under § 666
includes “all transfers of personal property or other valuable
consideration in exchange for the influence or reward.”
Salinas v. United States, 522 U.S. 52, 57 (1997) (emphasis
added). The transfer, therefore, of $100,000 from Ridley-
Thomas’s ballot committee through USC to United Ways for
the benefit of Sebastian’s nonprofit constitutes an “anything
of value” sufficient to support Ridley-Thomas’s conviction
for violating § 666(a)(1)(B). See, e.g., United States v.
Turchin, 21 F.4th 1192, 1203 (9th Cir. 2022) (holding that
cash was a “thing of value” under § 666); United States v.
Townsend, 630 F.3d 1003, 1011 (11th Cir. 2011)
(recognizing that “intangibles . . . are things of value” and
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                    23


collecting cases from the Third, Fifth, Seventh, and Eighth
Circuits holding the same).
    Sufficient evidence also supports a finding that the
transaction involved “anything of value of $5,000 or more.”
At trial, the Government provided evidence that the
Telehealth amendment exceeded $5,000 because the
amendment maintained funding for the contract at $530,323.
The Government’s evidence that the value of the Telehealth
amendment is more than $5,000 was sufficient for the jury
to conclude that the bribe related to a transaction of more
than $5,000. Thus, the district court did not err in denying
Ridley-Thomas’s motion for judgment of acquittal for his
bribery conviction.
   C. Jury Instruction Challenges
    Ridley-Thomas asserts four challenges to the jury
instructions. First, he contends that although honest services
fraud requires the intent to both deceive and cheat, the
district court instructed only on the intent to cheat. Next, he
argues that the instructions for both honest services fraud
and federal program bribery allowed the Government to
improperly present a “monetization” theory that conflated
gratuities and bribes. Third, he maintains that the district
court failed to instruct the jury that federal program bribery
requires proof of a quid pro quo. Finally, he asserts that the
instructions failed to distinguish bribery from lawful
ingratiation.
    “A defendant is not entitled to any particular form of
instruction, nor is he entitled to an instruction that merely
duplicates what the jury has already been told.” Shen Zhen,
115 F.4th at 1180 (citation omitted). “[We] are required to
review the jury instructions as a whole . . .” United States v.
Kincaid-Chauncey, 556 F.3d 923, 946 (9th Cir. 2009)
24                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


(citation omitted), abrogated on other grounds by Skilling,
561 U.S. at 409-10. We consider each challenge in turn.
     1. Intent Instruction For Honest Services Fraud
    The district court instructed the jury that honest services
fraud requires the Government to prove that:

        1. Defendant devised or knowingly
           participated in a scheme or plan to
           deprive the residents of the County of Los
           Angeles of their right of honest services;
        2. The scheme or plan consisted of a bribe
           in exchange for at least one official act by
           defendant, with all of you agreeing as to
           which act. . . .
        4. Defendant acted with the intent to
           defraud by depriving the residents of the
           County of their right of honest services.

    Ridley-Thomas argues that the instruction on honest
services fraud required the jury to find an intent to “cheat”
the residents of the County out of his honest services, but
omitted the requirement that the jury find an intent to
“deceive” his constituents in doing so.
    In the context of traditional wire fraud, the jury must be
instructed on defendant’s intent “to deceive and cheat,”
rather than an intent “to deceive or cheat.” United States v.
Miller, 953 F.3d 1095, 1101 (9th Cir. 2020) (emphases in the
original). That is to say, a jury must find the defendant’s
intent “to deprive the victim of money or property by means
of deception.” Id. at 1103. Here, the district court used the
Ninth’s Circuit model instruction. See Ninth Circuit Model
Criminal Jury Instructions 15.34 (2022). The instruction
                     USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     25


incorporated the element of deceptive intent by requiring the
jury to find that Ridley-Thomas “acted with the intent to
defraud,” which constitutes a “reference[] to the specific
intent to defraud the public.” Kincaid-Chauncey, 556 F.3d
at 945-46. Because the word “defraud” was included in the
instruction, to convict Ridley-Thomas of honest services
fraud, the jury was required to find that Ridley-Thomas had
the requisite intent to deceive the residents of the County.
See Defraud, Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024) (“To
cause injury or loss to (a person or organization) by deceit;
to trick (a person or organization)”). The jury heard
considerable evidence regarding the lengths Ridley-Thomas
went to in order to conceal that $100,000 of his campaign
funds were used to provide employment for Sebastian, and
that the funneling of this payment was accomplished with
Flynn’s assistance at a time when County contracts with
USC worth millions of dollars hung in the balance.
    Accordingly, the district court did not abuse its
discretion in rejecting Ridley-Thomas’s proposed honest
services fraud instruction. See Kincaid-Chauncey, 556 F.3d
at 946; see also Shen Zhen, 115 F.4th at 1180 (“A defendant
is not entitled . . . to an instruction that merely duplicates
what the jury has already been told”) (citation omitted).
    2. Gratuities Instruction
    Ridley-Thomas maintains that the failure to instruct the
jury that a gratuity is not a bribe permitted the jury to convict
him of honest services fraud and federal program bribery
under a legally invalid “monetization” theory that
improperly conflated gratuities and bribes. We are not
persuaded. The district court instructed the jury that it must
find that the “scheme or plan consisted of a bribe in exchange
for at least one official act by defendant.” This instruction
26                  USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


directed the jury to find quid pro quo bribery as an element
of honest services fraud. See Shen Zhen, 115 F.4th at 1176
(explaining that “[w]hen based on bribery, conviction for
honest-services fraud requires proof of the bribe-giver’s
intent to enter a quid pro quo”). So the jury was required to
find that Ridley-Thomas engaged in a bribery scheme before
convicting him of honest services fraud. Notably, no
credible evidence was presented that the transfer of funds
was intended as a gratuity. Rather, the undisputed evidence
was that the $100,000 was transferred for Sebastian’s benefit
and that Ridley-Thomas reached out to make the
arrangements for Sebastian well before he cast his votes. On
this record, the district court did not abuse its discretion in
rejecting Ridley-Thomas’s proposed gratuity instruction.
See id.
     3. Quid Pro Quo Instruction for Federal Programs
        Bribery (§ 666(a))
    Ridley-Thomas challenges the district court’s denial of
his request for a jury instruction that the Government was
required to prove a quid pro quo to obtain a conviction for
federal program bribery in violation of § 666(a). During this
appeal, the Supreme Court held in Snyder v. United States,
603 U.S. 1 (2024), that § 666 “is a bribery statute and not a
gratuities statute,” such that “payments made to an official
after an official act as a token of appreciation” are not
covered by the statute. Id. at 5, 10 (emphasis in the original).
And a bribe requires “a quid pro quo.” United States v. Sun-
Diamond Growers of Calif., 526 U.S. 398, 404 (1999).
    The district court’s instruction included the essential
elements of a quid pro quo. See United States v. Ford, 435
F.3d 204, 213 (2d Cir. 2006) (explaining that “[b]roken into
its essential pertinent parts,” § 666(a) requires that “the
                    USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                    27


recipient must have accepted the thing of value while
intending to be influenced”) (internal quotation marks
omitted). The jury also convicted Ridley-Thomas on five
counts of honest services fraud, which specifically required
the jury to find a quid pro quo. The jury’s guilty verdict on
the charge of honest services fraud confirms beyond a
reasonable doubt that any error in the district court’s
instruction on this count resulted in no harm. See United
States v. Wilkes, 662 F.3d 524, 544 (9th Cir. 2011); see also
Shen Zhen, 115 F.4th at 1179 (noting that § 666 “does not
require a jury to find a specific quid pro quo”) (citation and
alteration omitted).
   4. “Lawful Ingratiation” Instruction
    Ridley-Thomas asserts that the district court failed to
instruct that goodwill gifts provided to a public official,
including those given to curry favor or with the hope of
future benefit, are not bribes under § 666, but rather, “lawful
ingratiation.” He maintains that an instruction was required
to guide the jury in distinguishing between genuine
corruption and an elected official responding to lawful
lobbying efforts. We conclude that no such instruction was
necessary on the facts of this case. See Shen Zhen, 115 F.4th
at 1181 (characterizing a proposed instruction on “the
difference between unlawful bribery and lawful
ingratiation” as “unnecessary”) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Jurors were instructed that to find Ridley-Thomas
guilty of federal program bribery, they must find that he
“acted corruptly, that is, intending to be influenced or
rewarded in connection with any business, transaction, or
series of transactions of [Los Angeles] County.” The
Government’s evidence established a sequence of events
demonstrating Ridley-Thomas’s intent to be influenced in
connection with government business well before USC’s
28                   USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


funneling services were used. Ridley-Thomas “was not
entitled to further instruction on ingratiation that merely
duplicated what the jury had already been told.” Id.
(citation, alteration, and internal quotation marks omitted).
    In sum, we conclude that there was no instructional error
by the district court for either honest services fraud or federal
program bribery.
     D. Conspiracy
    Ridley-Thomas’s conspiracy conviction necessarily
rises and falls with his convictions for honest services fraud
and federal programs bribery. See United States v. Gonzalez,
906 F.3d 784, 790 (9th Cir. 2018) (concluding that for a
conspiracy conviction, “reversal is required only if one of
the objects of the conspiracy is legally deficient”) (emphasis
in the original).       Ridley-Thomas contends that the
conspiracy charge lacked a legally valid object, thereby
rendering his convictions legally infirm. But because the
honest services fraud and federal bribery convictions were
predicated on legally valid objects, we affirm the related
conspiracy conviction. See id.
     E. Batson Challenges
     Ridley-Thomas contends that the Government violated
Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U.S. 79 (1986), by exercising its
peremptory strikes to exclude the only two Black female
jurors in the venire and offering pretextual justifications for
its discriminatory intent. Generally, “we review the district
court’s ruling on a Batson challenge for clear error” but
“review de novo whether the district court properly applied
Batson.” Hernandez-Garcia, 44 F.4th at 1163 (citations
omitted).
                     USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS                     29


    Ridley-Thomas contends that a combination of race and
gender improperly animated the Government’s use of
peremptory strikes on the two Black female prospective
jurors. However, neither the Supreme Court nor this court
has recognized a Batson claim based on intersectional
considerations, a point that Ridley-Thomas concedes. See
Nguyen v. Frauenheim, 45 F.4th 1094, 1099-1101 (9th Cir.
2022). We decline to do so today. To the extent that Ridley-
Thomas’s challenges are race-based, the district court did
not clearly err. See Hernandez-Garcia, 44 F.4th at 1163.
The Government used its first peremptory strike on a Black
female prospective juror. Although “[t]he Constitution
forbids striking even a single prospective juror for a
discriminatory purpose,” Flowers v. Mississippi, 588 U.S.
284, 303 (2019), “generally striking only one prospective
juror who belongs to a protected group is not enough to draw
an inference without other evidence.” Nguyen, 45 F.4th at
1101 (citation omitted). The district court concluded that, at
that point, the “totality of the circumstances” did not support
an inference of discriminatory intent. Id.
IV. CONCLUSION
    The service of funneling $100,000 from Ridley-Thomas
to USC to United Ways for Sebastian’s benefit was a “thing
of value” sufficient to support Ridley-Thomas’s convictions
for both honest services fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C.
§ 1346 and federal program bribery in violation of
§ 666(a)(1)(B).       The Government presented sufficient
evidence of intent and materiality, and the district court did
not err in its jury instructions for either honest services fraud
or federal program bribery. Because we affirm Ridley-
Thomas’s convictions for honest services fraud and federal
program bribery, we also affirm the conspiracy conviction.
Finally, we decline to extend Batson to intersectional
30                 USA V. RIDLEY-THOMAS


challenges, and conclude that the district court did not
clearly err in rejecting Ridley-Thomas’s Batson challenges.
     AFFIRMED.
