PRECEDENTIAL 

UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT 
____________ 
No. 24-1123 
____________ 

NRA GROUP, LLC 

 v. 

NICOLE DURENLEAU; JAMIE BADACZEWSKI 
_________________________________________________ 

NICOLE DURENLEAU 

 v. 

NRA GROUP, LLC; STEVE KUSIC; SHELL SHARMA 
_________________________________________________ 

JAMIE BADACZEWSKI 

 v. 

NRA GROUP, LLC; STEVE KUSIC 

 NRA GROUP, LLC, 

 Appellant 

____________________________________________ 
Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the Middle District of Pennsylvania 
(District Court No. 1:21-cv-00715) 
District Judge: Honorable Jennifer P. Wilson 
____________________________________________ 
Argued on January 22, 2025 
Before: HARDIMAN, McKEE, and AMBRO, Circuit Judges 

(Opinion filed: August 26, 2025) 

Ivo J. Becica 
OBERMAYER REBMANN MAXWELL & HIPPEL 
1500 Market Street 
Centre Square West, 34th Floor 
Philadelphia, PA 19102 

Jennifer Bruce 
Paige Macdonald-Matthes (Argued) 
OBERMAYER REBMANN MAXWELL & HIPPEL 
200 Locust Street 
Suite 400 
Harrisburg, PA 17101 

 Counsel for Appellant 

Cory A. Iannacone (Argued) 
PILLAR AUGHT 
4201 E Park Circle 
Harrisburg, PA 17111 

Counsel for Appellees 

OPINION OF THE COURT 

AMBRO, Circuit Judge 
In the wrong hands, the law becomes a hammer in 
search of a nail. This is one such case. 
While employed with the debt-collection firm National 
Recovery Agency (NRA), Nicole Durenleau was out sick. She 
urgently needed a work document , but she had no way to 
access it. Her friend and colleague, Jamie Badaczewski, logged 
in to Durenleau ’s computer from the office, access ed the 
document—a spreadsheet with Durenleau ’s passwords —and 
emailed it to Durenleau. She did so with Durenleau’s express 
permission, but the pair ’s actions, including Durenleau’s 
creation of the spreadsheet, breached workplace computer-use 
policies. 
Separately, over several years, Durenleau altered work 
files in a manner that credited her for performance bonuses. 
Evidence shows she did so believing she was eligible for the 
bonuses. 
All the while, the women allege, they were subject to 
persistent sexual harassment at NRA . (One executive even 
slapped Durenleau.) They filed internal complaints. 
Eventually, Durenleau resigned, naming the harassment as the 
reason, and Badaczewski was fired soon after. 
Just weeks later, NRA went on the offensive. It sued the 
women under federal and state law for computer fraud, theft of 
trade secrets, civil conspiracy, breach of fiduciary duty, and 
common-law fraud. The women answered with federal - and 

state-law counterclaims for sexual harassment, retaliation, and 
a hostile work environment. 
On cross-motions for summary judgment, the District 
Court entered judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewski on all 
claims against them, staying their remaining sexual -
harassment claims against NRA pending this appeal. 
We affirm the District Court in full. In doing so, we hold 
for the first time that, (a) by its text and purpose, the Computer 
Fraud and Abuse Act , 18 U.S.C. § 1030, does not turn these 
workplace-policy infractions into federal crimes , and 
(b) passwords that protect proprietary business information are 
not themselves trade secrets under federal or Pennsylvania law. 
I. BACKGROUND 
This sprawling appeal covers several chapters in the 
history of a long -soured workplace. We will move through 
each. But as the main issue centers on the violation of some 
workplace computer-use policies, we start there. 
Through its debt-collection operations, NRA holds 
volumes of personally identifiable information1 (PII) about 
individual debtors. To comply with federal privacy laws, it has 
“developed and implemented comprehensive written data 
protection and computer use policies.” Opening Br. 11. 
These data -protection practices are layered. NRA’s 
systems are protected by digital firewalls. Employees can 

1 “Information”—like a consumer ’s name, address, social 
security number, or email address —“that can be used to 
distinguish or trace an individual ’s identity, either alone or 
when combined with other information that is linked or 
linkable to a specific individual. ” Guidance on the Protection 
of Personally Identifiable Information, U.S. Dep ’t of Labor, 
https://www.dol.gov/general/ppii [https://perma.cc/WGS9-
7RFP] (July 18, 2025). 

access the systems only when they are physically present in 
NRA’s offices or by using a company-issued laptop and virtual 
private network (VPN) for remote access. (That VPN 
connection requires additional authentication.) Employees 
cannot access NRA’s systems through any personal or mobile 
devices, but they may access their NRA email accounts on their 
cell phones. 
A related set of strict policies sets out NRA employees’ 
rights and responsibilities. Several are relevant here: 
• Employees are forbidden from sharing credentials and 
passwords; 
• Employees may not “attempt to receive unintended 
messages or access information by any unauthorized 
means, including imitating another system, 
impersonating another user, or misus[ing] legal user 
credentials (usernames, passwords), etc.”; 
• Passwords “may not be stored in readable form . . . or in 
any location where unauthorized person [s] might 
discover them”; 
• Employees “must maintain exclusive control of their 
[IDs and passwords] ” and “may not share [IDs ] or 
passwords] with others . . . for any reason”; 
• Employees must “take appropriate measures to protect 
the security and integrity of non -public customer 
information” and may not “allow[] unauthorized use of 
computer terminals or access of customer files”; 
• An employee may not “access or request any 
information [she has] no responsibility for”; and 
• Employees may not “use company computer systems 
for personal use, ” and an employee “caught using a 
company system for anything other than logging on 
. . . for collection s purposes . . . will be terminated 
immediately.” 

App. 2886–91 (cleaned up). 
Employees acknowledge and assent to all policies at 
hiring; after that, they annually review those governing system 
credentials and passwords. These policies bound Durenleau 
and Badaczewski during the events in question. We recount 
those next. 
A. While Durenleau was out sick, she and Badaczewski 
teamed up to solve a work problem. 
Durenleau was NRA’s Senior Manager of Compliance 
Services, and Badaczewski worked in marketing . Though 
apparently friends, t he women did not work together or even 
in the same NRA office. 
Durenleau had COVID in January 2021, so she was out 
sick for more than a week. While home, she was not given a 
laptop to access the NRA systems from home, nor could she 
come to the office. She had access only to her work email 
through her personal phone. Soon she would ask Badaczewski 
for help on a pressing matter. 
1. January 6, 2021: Badaczewski logged in to the NRA 
systems as Durenleau at the latter’s request. 
Despite her illness, Durenleau was attending to work 
matters on the morning of January 6. She asked her supervisor, 
Lisa Daube, to look through papers on Durenleau’s desk to see 
if anything needed attention. Daube found an urgent task: a 
letter from a Wyoming state agency, dated December 17, 2020, 
informing NRA that its state affiliate’s license had expired and 
had not been timely renewed. If NRA wished to renew the 
license without a hearing, it needed to submit a signed copy of 
the letter and pay a $250 fi ne through the Nationwide 
Multistate Licensing System & Registry (NMLS) within 20 
days. The deadline was that day. 
This was concerning. Shortly after 9:00 a.m., Daube and 
Durenleau spoke on the phone to brainstorm a list of colleagues 

with NMLS access who could pay the fine. NRA’s CEO, Steve 
Kusic, had access . So did Durenleau. Hours passed. Kusic, 
now aware of the problem, made it clear he wanted it solved, 
and fast. He emailed Durenleau, “Please let me know how 
YOU are going to get this fixed by the end of business 
today. . . . How you do it, is your problem . . . . I am not 
learning NMLS today, get this License Renewed TODAY!!! ” 
App. 19–20. 
Around noon, Daube texted Durenleau to offer that 
either (a) NRA’s IT staff team could sift through Durenleau’s 
email to find her NMLS login or (b) Durenleau could give 
Daube the login information to pay it herself. Durenleau 
favored the latter, but she did not remember her password. 
So instead, she called Badaczewski and shared her NRA 
system credentials. Badaczewski logged in to the NRA 
network as Durenleau. Next, she opened a Microsoft Excel 
spreadsheet created by Durenleau that contained her passwords 
for dozens of NRA systems and accounts .2 Though the 
spreadsheet itself contained no consumer PII, many systems 
and accounts listed did. 
Badaczewski sent Durenleau her NMLS login 
information from the spreadsheet. Then Durenleau texted that 
to Daube, who confirmed she was in the NMLS system. By the 
afternoon of January 6, the Wyoming licensing problem was 
solved. 
2. January 7, 2021: Badaczewski sent Durenleau’s 
password document to her personal and work 
emails. 
The next afternoon, January 7, Durenleau and 
Badaczewski spoke by phone for about 15 minutes. During that 
call, Durenleau, still out sick without access to her NRA 

2 To the dismay of IT professionals everywhere, the document 
was titled “My Passwords.xlsx.” App. 2770. 

computer, again gave her login to Badaczewski, who logged in 
to NRA’s system as Durenleau. Id. 
This time, rather than providing Durenleau with the 
passwords over the phone, Badaczewski emailed the password 
spreadsheet to Durenleau’s personal Gmail account. The email 
message was blank, and the subject line was simply a smiley 
face.3 Eighteen minutes later, Badaczewski emailed the 
spreadsheet to Durenleau ’s NRA work email. The record 
suggests Badaczewski’s first email to Durenleau ’s Gmail 
account was an accident —both her personal and NRA email 
addresses began with “ndurenleau@.” App. 3275–76. 
B. Durenleau altered collection records used to calculate 
performance bonuses. 
When NRA sued Durenleau for these workplace policy 
violations, it also sued her for unrelated allegations of fraud 
stemming from her crediting herself for performance bonuses. 
NRA pays bonuses to its debt collectors. Bonus-worthy 
performance is not defined sharply; rather, “for an NRA 
employee to earn a bonus, the employee would ‘have to do 
something to the account in order to aid the consumer to make 
a payment. ’” Opening Br. 18. According to Durenleau, t his 
“something” might be communicating with a debtor, 
confirming payment, recording a debtor as deceased, and the 
like. 

3 At oral argument, counsel for NRA , describing the subject 
line as a “winky-face emoji, ” repeatedly assigned malicious 
intent to its use : “That password spreadsheet . . . was sent 
willfully and intentionally with an intent to deceive as 
evidenced by the winky -face emoji. . . . It’s undisputed that it 
was a winky-face emoji.” When asked whether “it’s nationally 
known that ’s what a winky -face emoji means,” counsel for 
NRA did not answer and instead changed the subject. Oral Arg. 
Recording 31:22–32:10. 

NRA assigns debt accounts to “workgroups” to track 
which employees are responsible for collecting a debt and thus 
eligible for a bonus. From 2019 through her resignation in 
2021, Durenleau, as a compliance executive, was assigned to 
the compliance work group. Compliance was not the primary 
team responsible for collections ( NRA has a separate 
collections team), but NRA executives set up a compliance 
workgroup for Durenleau to track her eligibility for bonuses. 
There is no evidence of a clear policy governing when 
Durenleau—a member of the compliance team, but not a 
collector—was eligible to receive a collection bonus. Still, she 
had “permission to move select accounts [to her workgroup] 
based on certain circumstances.” App. 3631. 
In January 2021, Durenleau emailed supervisors on the 
collections team with a concern: collectors were moving 
accounts out of the compliance workgroup and into their own, 
thus counting those accounts toward their bonuses, when 
Durenleau believed they should count toward hers. Daube, 
Durenleau’s supervisor, met her to discuss the accounts. T he 
pair reviewed some that Durenleau believed had been moved 
improperly by the collections team. Daube disagreed. In her 
view, no one in compliance had worked on these ac counts, so 
it was “proper for collectors to move the accounts from 
compliance into their [workgroups].” App. 2817. 
After this conversation with Durenleau, Daube asked 
another NRA manager to audit all collections accounts moved 
into the compliance workgroup in that month of January 2021. 
The audit revealed Durenleau had moved 146 accounts into her 
workgroup, 11 of which had been moved after the debt had 
been collected. During the audit, Durenleau called the auditing 
manager and asked, “[D]id I do something wrong?” App. 742. 
When the audit was complete, Durenleau admitted to 
moving those 146 accounts. Records show that between 2019 
and her 2021 resignation, Durenleau moved some 200–300 
accounts per month from the collections workgroup to the 

compliance workgroup. A good number of these, worth 
roughly $3,000 in bonus payments, were moved after debt 
payment had been made. 
In response, NRA issued Durenleau a written “Final 
Warning with No Suspension ,” disqualified her from bonus 
eligibility, and warned her she would be fired for any new 
violations. App. 3201. Durenleau acknowledged the warning 
in writing , and she did not dispute further whether she was 
eligible to receive bonuses on the accounts she had moved to 
her workgroup. 
NRA issued that warning to Durenleau on February 2, 
2021. She resigned from NRA on February 21. Badaczewski, 
meanwhile, was fired from NRA a month later, on March 20 , 
the day after an internal investigation revealed that she had 
been the one to log in to Durenleau ’s account in January to 
access and email the spreadsheet. 
C. The other half of this litigation involves allegations of 
sexual harassment, retaliation, and related employment 
claims. 
Though this appeal is about NRA’s claims against 
Durenleau and Badaczewski, their claims against NRA are 
intertwined, and, as we later explain, see Part II below, relevant 
to whether we have jurisdiction. 
Durenleau and Badaczewski claim that, during their 
time at NRA, they were sexually harassed, and —when they 
resisted—retaliated against. On this point, we recount only 
some of the vast record. 
Durenleau reported that soon after her 2014 hiring, the 
CEO, Kusic, repeatedly commented on her appearance, 
suggested they picture each other naked, and asked her to go 
skinny dipping with him. Durenleau told another NRA 
executive about all of this, but nothing happened . Kusic’s 
harassment continued. Later, in one bizarre incident, he “wiped 

a cheese curl over Durenleau ’s lips” and gave her what she 
called a “funny look.” App. 23. 
Badaczewski began working at NRA much later than 
Durenleau, in September 2020. She described being sexually 
harassed “all day, every day ” during her six months of 
employment at NRA, counting at least 120 incidents. App. 26. 
Kusic told her that men liked her because she had blonde hair 
and large breasts, and, like with Durenleau, he often asked 
about her sex life and interest in various men. This continued 
all the way through her firing in March 2021. 
For Durenleau, the end began in November 2020. One 
day that month, a male NRA executive found Durenleau in her 
office with several people who reported to her. She was on the 
speakerphone with a coworker, who was complaining about 
another NRA employee. The executive asked Durenleau ’s 
subordinates to leave, closed the door, chastised Durenleau for 
criticizing a coworker in front of others , then slapped her on 
the face.4 That day, Durenleau reported the incident to in-house 
counsel. In response, counsel advised Durenleau that “a feeling 
of job insecurity could lead to [mis]interpreting a paternalistic 
pat on the cheek that felt a bit more firm than usual, followed 
by a quick departure. But, that interpretation appears to have 
been mistaken. Your job is secure.” App. 25. 
Durenleau went out sick with COVID not long after, in 
January 2021, and we have already told what happened from 
there: the expired NMLS license, the password spreadsheet, 
and Badaczewski’s assistance. 
Durenleau resigned in February, three months after the 
slap, writing in her resignation letter that she was “targeted and 
harassed at NRA . . . [, and t]he harassment was taken to a 
whole new level when [the executive slapped her].” App. 4711. 

4 The executive was later convicted of criminal harassment for 
his actions. 

Durenleau explained she could not “take this [anymore]” and 
was “resigning to free [her]self from this environment.” Id. The 
next day, her attorney sent NRA a demand letter detailing 
Durenleau’s allegations of sexual harassment and intention to 
sue. Recall Badaczewski was fired the next month, when NRA 
discovered she was the employee who had accessed 
Durenleau’s computer and emailed her the password 
spreadsheet. 
D. Procedural history. 
NRA filed its initial complaint in April 2021. At first, it 
alleged only one count: a violation of the Computer Fraud and 
Abuse Act (CFAA), 18 U.S.C. § 1030, by Durenleau. It filed 
an amended complaint the next month, adding Badaczewski as 
a defendant. Against both women, NRA alleged four counts 
under the CFAA, claims for violating the federal Defend Trade 
Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1836 et seq.; the parallel Pennsylvania 
Uniform Trade Secrets Act, 12 Pa. Con. Stat. § 5301 et seq.; 
and state -law claims of civil conspiracy, breach of the 
common-law duty of loyalty, and —against Durenleau only—
fraud. 
Durenleau and Badaczewski answered in June and July 
2021, respectively, raising counterclaims for sexual 
harassment, negligent hiring and retention , and retaliation 
under state and federal law. After discovery, Durenleau and 
Badaczewski amended their answers and counterclaims in 
November 2022. 
The parties cross -moved for summary judgment. The 
District Court granted summary judgment to Durenleau and 
Badaczewski on all of NRA ’s claims against them, and it 
granted in part the employees’ motion on the sexual -
harassment and related claims, leaving some of those claims 
pending. NRA then moved the Court to certify its judgment for 
the employees under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(b), 
which permits a d istrict court to “direct entry of a final 

judgment” for some “claims or parties” if the court “determines 
that there is no just reason for delay.” The Court did so as to its 
judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewsk i, staying the 
remaining sexual-harassment and retaliation claims. 
NRA timely appealed. 
II. JURISDICTION AND STANDARD OF REVIEW 
The District Court had jurisdiction over the federal 
questions presented, 28 U.S.C. § 1331, and supplemental 
jurisdiction over the related state -law claims, id. § 1367. The 
question of our jurisdiction is not quite as tidy. 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure Rule 54(b) allows a 
court to “direct entry of a final judgment ” on a portion of a 
case’s claims “only if the court expressly determines that there 
is no just reason for delay.” But Rule 54(b) certification “is the 
exception, not the rule, to the usual course of proceedings in a 
district court.” Elliott v. Archdiocese of N.Y., 682 F.3d 213, 220 
(3d Cir. 2012). To justify the exception, the district court must 
determine there has been a final disposition on a “cognizable 
claim” sufficient to constitute a “final judgment” and evaluate 
whether there is “any just reason for delay, taking into account 
judicial administrative interests as well as the equities 
involved.” Id. (cleaned up). 
Elaborating on these administrative interests and 
equities, we have instructed that, when assessing whether there 
is a “just reason for delay” under Rule 54(b), a district court 
consider five factors: 
(1) the relationship between the adjudicated and 
unadjudicated claims; 
(2) the possibility that the need for review might 
or might not be mooted by future developments 
in the district court; 

(3) the possibility that the reviewing court might 
be obliged to consider the same issue a second 
time; 
(4) the presence or absence of a claim or 
counterclaim which could result in set -off 
against the judgment sought to be made final; 
[and] 
(5) miscellaneous factors such as delay, 
economic and solvency considerations, 
shortening the time of trial, frivolity of 
competing claims, expense, and the like. 
Berckeley Inv. Grp., Ltd. v. Colkitt, 455 F.3d 195, 203 (3d Cir. 
2006). 
We review a district court’s Rule 54(b) certification for 
abuse of discretion. Id. at 202. 
At the threshold, we note that the District Court’s entry 
of summary judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewski on 
NRA’s claims was a final judgment on those claims. See Fed. 
R. Civ. P. 54(b) (permitting a district court to “direct entry of 
a final judgment as to one or more, but fewer than all, claims”). 
But as we weigh the “judicial administrative interests” 
and “the equities,” Elliott, 682 F.3d at 220, the first factor gives 
us pause . When we compare the timing of Durenleau’s and 
Badaczewski’s sexual-harassment allegations with the timing 
of NRA ’s lawsuit, the suit looks preemptive—or even 
retaliatory, for the employees’ complaining about harassment 
at work. In fact, in the background section of their brief to us, 
Durenleau and Badaczewski describe what discovery 
“uncovered”: a “modus operandi” among NRA executives of 
“responding to any complaints ” of sexual harassment or 
mistreatment by “threatening legal action against the 
complainant[,] . . . which is exactly what occurred to 
Durenleau and Badaczewski. ” Answering Br. 7; see also id. 
nn.1–2 (describing such instances concerning other, former 

employees who were threatened with legal action or the release 
of “devastating” personal and professional information after 
complaining about mistreatment at the hands of NRA 
executives). 
That said, the issues here are legally distinct from those 
stayed at the District Court . Our consideration of NRA ’s 
claims under the CFAA, state and federal trade -secrets acts, 
and Pennsylvania tort law has nothing to do with sexual 
harassment and the women ’s federal - and state -law 
employment claims. We can resolve the merits of the claims 
before us independently of those stayed claims, and doing so 
will not offend “judicial administrative interests ” or “the 
equities involved.” Elliott, 682 F.3d at 220. So we conclude the 
District Court properly certified its ruling under Rule 54(b), 
giving us jurisdiction over that final judgment, 28 U.S.C. 
§ 1291. 
This matter properly before us, w e review de novo the 
District Court ’s grant of summary judgment. Canada v. 
Samuel Grossi & Sons, Inc., 49 F.4th 340, 345 (3d Cir. 2022). 
Our inquiry is the same as th at Court’s: whether, viewing the 
facts in the light most favorable to NRA and drawing all 
inferences in its favor, Durenleau and Badaczewski are entitled 
to judgment as a matter of law because there are no genuine 
disputes of material fact. Id.; Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a). 
III. DISCUSSION 
We sift through the heap of NRA ’s claims against 
Durenleau and Badaczewski, beginning with those under the 
CFAA. After that, we consider whether the passwords in the 
spreadsheet were trade secrets, and we conclude by addressing 
NRA’s state-law tort claims against the women. 

A. The District Court correctly granted summary 
judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewski on NRA ’s 
CFAA claims against them. 
Congress adopted the CFAA in 1986 to “stem the tide 
of criminal behavior ” involving computers, which were 
becoming more commonplace in schools, offices, and homes. 
Patricia L. Bellia, A Code -Based Approach to Unauthorized 
Access Under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act , 84 Geo. 
Wash. L. Rev. 1442, 1443 (2016) (quoting H.R. Rep. No. 98 -
894, at 4 (1984)). 
Two features of the CFAA merit special mention. 
First, the Act turns on the meaning of “authorization.” 
Nearly all its provisions are trigge red by someone who 
“accesses a computer without authorization” or by “exceeding 
authorized access ,” imposing civil and criminal liability on 
anyone who does so with respect to a “protected computer.” 
See generally 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a). To be sure, users in today’s 
globally integrated economy would be hard -pressed to find a 
computer that is not a “protected computer” under the statute, 
as the term includes any computer “used in or affecting 
interstate or foreign commerce or communication. ” Id. 
§ 1030(e)(2)(B). 
NRA argues that Durenleau and Badaczewski accessed 
and used NRA ’s systems in ways that were either without 
authorization or exceeded their authorized access. These 
arguments hinge on the employees ’ failure to heed NRA’s 
internal computer -use policies. While courts “have long 
struggled to apply these concepts of accessing a computer 
without authorization and exceeding authorized access, ” 
Bellia, above, at 1445, we have some recent guidance. In 2021, 
the Supreme Court took up a case presenting what it means to 
use a computer in a way that “exceeds authorized access, ” 
giving us a framework to use in deciding NRA’s claims. Van 
Buren v. United States, 593 U.S. 374 (2021). 

Second, “a violation of any of the statute ’s provisions 
exposes the offender to both civil and criminal liability,” WEC 
Carolina Energy Sols. LLC v. Miller , 687 F.3d 199, 201 (4th 
Cir. 2012), including fines in excess of $250,000 and 
imprisonment for up to 20 years , 18 U.S.C. §§ 1030(c), 
3571(d). Our interpretation of the statute applies uniformly in 
both contexts. Leocal v. Ashcroft , 543 U.S. 1, 11 n.8 (2004). 
That means should we hold Durenleau and Badaczewski 
civilly liable for their actions, the same conduct could expose 
them, or others in the future who do the same, to criminal 
prosecution. Put bluntly: NRA asks us to make the employees’ 
conduct a federal crime. 
Thus we tread carefully, mindful of the “canon of strict 
construction of criminal statutes” that “ensures fair warning by 
so resolving ambiguity in a criminal statute as to apply it only 
to conduct clearly covered.” United States v. Lanier, 520 U.S. 
259, 266 (1997 ). This is especially important with respect to 
the CFAA, as “dramatic changes in technology [have] swept 
virtually all internet -connected devices within the statu te’s 
reach.” Bellia, above, at 1444; accord Van Buren , 593 U.S. 
at 379 (the statute covers “all information from all computers 
that connect to the internet”). 
NRA argues both that the employees exceeded their 
authorization to access NRA ’s syste m—the computer 
protected under the statute —and that they did so without 
authorization at all. The District Court ruled the employees did 
neither, and we agree. 
1. The employees did not exceed their authorized 
access to NRA’s computer systems. 
Van Buren compels affirming the District Court’s ruling 
that the employees did not exceed authorized access. We 
explain that case before applying it to the matter before us. 

a. Van Buren and “exceeds authorized 
access.” 
The CFAA defines “exceeds authorized access ” as 
“access[ing] a computer with authorization and to use such 
access to obtain or alter information in the computer that the 
accesser is not entitled so to obtain or alter. ” 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(e)(6). 
In Van Buren , the Supreme Court took up whether 
under this definition the petitioner, a former police sergeant, 
exceeded his authorized access to a law-enforcement computer 
database. 593 U.S. at 378 . The department’s policy allowed 
him to use the database ’s information only for legitimate law 
enforcement purposes, but Van Buren took a bribe, through a 
sting operation, to search the database for information about a 
woman that his briber wished to track down. Id. at 378–80. He 
was charged with a felony violation of the CFAA “on the 
ground that running the [woman’s] license plate” for that crude 
purpose meant he accessed the department’s database in a way 
that “exceed[ed] authorized access.” Id. at 380. 
The Supreme Court ruled he did not, reasoning that “an 
individual ‘exceeds authorized access ’ when he accesses a 
computer with authorization but then obtains information 
located in particular areas of the computer —such as files, 
folders, or databases —that are off limits to him .” Id. at 396 
(emphasis added). Van Buren ’s conduct did not meet this 
standard because he had authorization to use the police 
database and retrieve license -plate information. Though he 
obtained that information for an “improper purpose,” he had 
authorization to do so, and his obtaining the information did 
not exceed that authorization. Id. 
The Court adopted this interpretation based on “a gates-
up-or-down inquiry —one either can or cannot access a 
computer system, and one either can or cannot access certain 
areas within the system,” as some areas are fully “off limits.” 

Id. at 390, 396.5 The majority reasoned that this “gates-up-or-
down approach aligns with the computer -context 
understanding of access as entry.” Id. at 390 (emphasis added). 
Indeed, Congress enacted the statute as increased computing 
and connectivity made “society more vulnerable to hacking 
incidents”—that is, incidents of entry without access. Bellia, 
above, at 1467. 
Even more, the Van Buren Court cautioned that a mere 
violation of a workplace computer-use policy should not create 
a claim under the CFAA, as doing so “would attach criminal 
penalties to a breathtaking amount of commonplace computer 
activity.” 593 U.S. at 393. Were the “exceeds authorized 
access” language of the CFAA to apply to “every violation of 
a computer-use policy, then millions of otherwise law-abiding 
citizens [would be] criminals.” Id. at 394. In an example highly 
relevant here, the Court observed that “[e]mployers commonly 
state that computers and electronic devices can be used only 
for business purposes, ” so were workplace policy violations 
cognizable under the CFAA, “an employee who sends a 
personal e-mail or reads the news using her work computer has 
violated the CFAA.” Id. 
b. Applying Van Buren , we conclude 
Durenleau and Badaczewski did not 
exceed their authorized access. 
The District Court faithfully applied Van Buren to 
NRA’s claims that the employees ’ actions, which violated 
NRA’s policies, exceeded their authorized use: Durenleau 
when she created the password spreadsheet , accessed her 
computer through Badaczewski while home on COVID leave, 

5 In doing so, the Court reserved the question of “whether this 
inquiry turns only on technological (or ‘code-based’) 
limitations on access, or instead also looks to limits contained 
in contracts or policies.” Van Buren, 593 U.S. at 390 n.8. We 
consider those latter limits here. 

and asked Badaczewski to email the spreadsheet to her; 
Badaczewski when she logged in with Durenleau’s credentials 
and emailed the spreadsheet. Under Van Buren, the “gates” of 
access were “up” for both women—neither hacked into NRA’s 
systems. No doubt Durenleau and Badaczewski violated 
NRA’s policies , but as employees they had access to the 
systems: Durenleau by the fact of her employment, and 
Badaczewski with Durenleau ’s credentials. No one hacked 
anything by deploying code to enter a part of NRA’s systems 
to which they had no access.6 
The District Court observed that “authorization under 
the CFAA has not yet been defined by the Third Circuit, ” 
App. 34 (quotation marks omitted), relying instead on a first-
rate opinion by our district-court colleague, Judge Savage, that 
explains “an employee is ‘authorized to access a computer 
when his employer approves or sanctions his admission to that 
computer,” Teva Pharms. USA, Inc. v. Sandhu , 291 F. Supp. 
3d 659, 670 (E.D. Pa. 2018) (quotation omitted) ; accord 

6 In the scholarship, this sensible idea that the CFAA targets 
hacking comes from the “code-based” approach to cybercrime. 
That is, a user must circumvent the operation of the computer 
system’s code —in a word, hack —to access the computer. 
Durenleau and Badaczewski did not do that; in fact, they used 
NRA’s computers within the parameters of their access. Th e 
code-based approach distinguishes hacking from what NRA 
alleges here, “policy-based” violations. Along with the Bellia 
article cited throughout, we find helpful Samantha Hourican, 
Note, CFAA and Van Buren: A Half-Measure for A Whole-Ly 
Ineffective Statute, 47 Seton Hall J. Legis. & Pub. Pol’y 30 
(2023); Katherine Mesenbring Field, Note, Agency, Code, or 
Contract: Determining Employees ’ Authorization Under the 
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act , 107 Mich. L. Rev. 819 
(2009); and Orin S. Kerr, Cybercrime’s Scope: Interpreting 
“Access” and “Authorization” in Computer Misuse Statutes , 
78 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1596 (2003). 

Miller, 687 F.3d at 204 (“[A] n employee is authorized to 
access a computer when his employer approves or sanctions 
his admission to that computer .”); LVRC Holdings LLC v. 
Brekka, 581 F.3d 1127, 1133 (9th Cir. 2009) (“[A]n employer 
gives an employee “authorization” to access a company 
computer when the employer gives the employee permission 
to use it.”). 
We adopt this definition today, as it is in harmony with 
Van Buren and the definitions adopted by our sister circuits. 
NRA no doubt authorized Durenleau and Badaczewski to 
access NRA’s computers when they were hired. 
 NRA resists this conclusion by doubling down on its 
arguments that the employees’ v iolation of the workplace 
policies means the y exceeded their access. Even more, NRA 
contends that because Durenleau could not access her 
computer from home (because of firewalls, VPNs, and other 
code-based protections of NRA’s system), she necessarily was 
hacking by inducing Badaczewski to access Durenleau’s work 
computer. This, NRA tells us, is distinct from Van Buren. 
No, it is not. Durenleau could access NRA’s systems 
and her work computer, just as Van Buren could the police 
database. Company policy prohibited her from doing so at 
home—just like policy prohibited Van Buren ’s misuse of the 
database—so, no question, she and Badaczewski contravened 
NRA’s computer policies. But they had access to the system. 
Durenleau’s access allowed her to log in to her computer, 
create spreadsheets (even those with her passwords), and email 
herself documents. She instead asked Badaczewski to do this 
for her; Badaczewski also was an NRA employee with 
authorized access to NRA’s systems. Once more, in the terms 

of Van Buren, the gates were up, even if the road signs—the 
NRA policies—all told the women to stop and turn around.7 
We add that the policy implications of NRA’s 
arguments are “breathtaking.” Van Buren , 593 U.S. at 393. 
Durenleau was at home and needed a password to complete an 
urgent work assignment—one that, in the words of her CEO, 
she needed to complete “TODAY!!!” App. 20. She couldn’t 
retrieve the password, so she asked a colleague, Badaczewski, 
to log in to NRA ’s systems with her credentials and email a 
helpful document. NRA asks us to make this a federal crime. 
We refuse. Instead, we affirm the District Court’s rejection of 
NRA’s claims that the employees “exceed[ed] authorized 
access.” 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(2). 

7 Even were we to assume that Badaczewski was unauthorized 
to access the system using Durenleau’s password, on these 
facts Badaczewski did not “ intentionally . . . exceed[] [her] 
authorized access” under the CFAA. 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(2) 
(emphasis added). Under that assumption, still mindful of the 
“canon of strict construction of criminal statutes” that “ensures 
fair warning by so resolving ambiguity in a criminal statute as 
to apply it only to conduct clearly covered,” Lanier, 520 U.S. 
at 266, we would conclude that “intentionally” modifies the 
entire phrase “exceeds authorized access.” 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(2); see also Rehaif v. United States , 588 U.S. 225, 
231 (2019) (“We have interpreted statutes to include a scienter 
requirement even where the statutory text is silent on the 
question. And we have interpreted statutes to include a scienter 
requirement even where the most grammatical reading of the 
statute does not support one.” (cleaned up)). This interpretation 
is also consistent with the dangers posed by hacking —as 
opposed to the workplace-policy violations we see here—that 
the CFAA is meant to address. 

2. The employees were authorized to access NRA’s 
systems. 
We turn to a closely related issue: whether Durenleau 
and Badaczewski, who accessed the NRA systems in violation 
of company policy , did so without authorization at all. Our 
conclusion follows logically, and easily, from the analysis 
above. If the employees did not exceed their authorization, they 
necessarily had authorization. 
Still, as with the “exceeds authorization” question, NRA 
offers arguments premised on the employees’ violations of 
workplace policies. As NRA puts it, the firewalls, VPNs, and 
so forth blocked Durenleau from accessing the NRA system 
while she was home, thus she had no authorization to do so; 
Badaczewski was not authorized to access Durenleau ’s files; 
and Durenleau, without authorization, could not give 
Badaczewski what she did not have. We remain unpersuaded. 
Instead, we hold that , absent evidence of code -based 
hacking, the CFAA does not countenance claims premised on 
a breach of workplace computer -use policies by current 
employees. Because “[e]mployer-employee and company -
consumer relationships are traditionally governed by [state-
level] tort and contract law , . . . [s]ignificant notice problems 
arise if we allow criminal liability to turn on the vagaries of 
private polices that are lengthy, opaque, subject to change and 
seldom read.” United States v. Nosal , 676 F.3d 854, 860 (9th 
Cir. 2012) (en banc). Like our sister circuits, we are “unwilling 
to co ntravene Congress ’s intent by transforming a statute 
meant to target hackers into a vehicle for imputing liability to 
workers who . . . disregard a use policy. ” Miller, 687 F.3d 
at 207. It bears repeating : Not only would “such an approach 
permit[] a system owner” to use private use policies to “dictate 
the contours ” of a statute Congress wrote; it would 
“federalize[] a range of disputes that have traditionally been 
within the purview of state law.” Bellia, above, at 1475. 

Though NRA would have us “criminalize[] contract 
law,” Kerr, n.6 above, at 1600, CFAA case law cannot bear 
that heavy consequence. Every case NRA cites for support 
contemplates circumstances wholly distinct from those here . 
See United States v. Shahulhameed , 629 F. App ’x 685, 688 
(6th Cir. 2015) (holding that independent contractor who was 
fired and instructed to “not report to work” nor “have contact 
with anyone” at client firm accessed computer system “without 
authorization” when he subsequently logged on); Brekka, 581 
F.3d at 1136 (observing without deciding that, at summary 
judgment, parties did not dispute that former employee “would 
have accessed a protected computer ‘without authorization’” 
had he logged in “after he left” employer); Teva, 291 F. Supp. 
3d at 671 (describing how non-employees, “akin to hackers,” 
induced employee to share protected information from 
employer’s computer system). NRA does not point to, nor can 
we find, support in case law for its radical position. 
Indeed, there are many other causes of action —breach 
of contract, business torts, fraud, negligence, and so on —that 
provide a remedy for employers when employees grossly 
transgress computer-use policies.8 The CFAA is the wrong tool 
for NRA’s project. 
With today’s holding, we mean to turn future litigants 
to other causes of action so that we do not make “millions of 
otherwise law-abiding citizens [into] criminals. ” Van Buren, 
593 U.S. at 394. Accordingly, we affirm the District Court ’s 
grant of summary judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewski 
on all of NRA’s claims under the CFAA.9 

8 NRA brought those claims, but as we will explain, they fail, 
too. See Part III.C, below. 
9 The District Court also ruled that NRA did not show 
Durenleau and Badaczewski had an “intent to defraud,” a 
required element of a CFAA claim. App. 40 –42. We need not 

B. Because Durenleau’s passwords did not have 
“independent economic value, ” they were not trade 
secrets under federal or state law. 
For Durenleau’s creation of the password spreadsheet 
and Badaczewski ’s emailing it to Durenleau’s personal 
account, NRA also sued the employees for violating the federal 
Defend Trade Secrets Act (DTSA), 18 U.S.C. § 1836 et seq., 
and the largely parallel Pennsylvania Uniform Trade Secrets 
Act (PUTSA), 12 Pa. Cons. Stat. § 5301 et seq. 
The DTSA and PUTSA protect the same type of 
information, so we analyze them together. Any daylight 
between the two statutes is irrelevant to the claims here. 
Compare Teva, 291 F. Supp. 3d at 675 (setting out DTSA 
elements), with Bimbo Bakeries USA, Inc. v. Botticella , 613 
F.3d 102, 109 ( 3d Cir. 2010) (analyzing elements of PUTSA 
claim). Each statute protects information that (a) the owner has 
taken reasonable measures to keep secret , (b) “derives 
independent economic value, actual or potential, ” from being 
kept secret , (c) is not “readily ascertainable ” by “proper 
means,” and, (d) were it disclosed or used, would have 
economic value to those who cannot readily access it. 18 
U.S.C. § 1839(3); 12 Pa. Cons. Stat. § 5302. 
Our inquiry hinges on (b), independent economic value. 
“[A] compilation of data that has independent economic value 
can be protected as a trade secret, ” Synthes, Inc. v. Emerge 
Med., Inc., 25 F. Supp. 3d 617, 706 (E.D. Pa. 2014) (quotation 
omitted), including a “compilation of customer data” if it “was 
generated in such a fashion that it constitutes intellectual 
property of the owner,” Bro-Tech Corp. v. Thermax, Inc., 651 
F. Supp. 2d 378, 409 (E.D. Pa. 2009). 

address that, as NRA trips on the threshold requirement of 
showing that the pair exceeded or acted without authorization. 

As we described , Durenleau ’s spreadsheet contained 
passwords for dozens of NRA systems and third -party 
accounts. Many databases accessible through those accounts 
contained consumer PII and other private information. NRA 
argues those passwords were trade secrets under both the 
DTSA and PUTSA, so Durenleau and Badaczewski 
misappropriated trade secrets by creating and emailing the 
spreadsheet.10 We agree with the District Court that t hose 
passwords were not trade secrets. 
The password spreadsheet Durenleau created and 
Badaczewski emailed was certainly a “compilation of data, ” 
but it was not a “compilation of customer data” or some other 
“intellectual property of the owner.” Id. Case law on this point 
is thin and undeveloped , but in most of those cases , the 
password information was bundled with other, more colorable 
trade secrets like raw customer information, pricing schemes, 
strategy documents, and so on. See, e.g., CLI Interactive, LLC 
v. Diamond Phil’s, LLC, No. 2:22-cv-01602-JXN-CLW, 2023 
WL 1818381, at *2–3 (D.N.J. Feb. 8, 2023) (discussing alleged 
misappropriation of system administrator passwords, branding 
information, marketing concepts, photos, video, and 
“proprietary optimization techniques and data ”); TMX 
Funding, Inc. v. Impero Techs., Inc. , No. C 10 -00202 JF 
(PVT), 2010 WL 2509979, at *3–4 (N.D. Cal. June 17, 2010) 

10 NRA also makes a fleeting argument that the passwords, by 
identifying clients, constituted a “list of customers.” Opening 
Br. 45. We find that difficult to square with its concession that 
it “used pseudonyms to identify certain customers and 
third[]parties listed.” Opening Br. 44 n.6 (emphasis added). In 
any event, NRA cites no authority for the bald proposition that 
a customer list is a trade secret . We are persuaded that, to be 
considered intellectual property, such a list must also reveal the 
kind and quantity of customer information worthy of trade -
secret protection. E.g., Spring Steels, Inc. v. Molloy, 162 A.2d 
370, 372 (Pa. 1960). Durenleau’s spreadsheet did not. 

(concluding allegations of “nine broad categories of trade 
secret information,” only one of which concerned “[l]ogin and 
password information,” were “sufficient” at Rule 12(b) stage). 
But see PhoneDog v. Kravitz, No. C 11-03474 MEJ, 2011 WL 
5415612, at *5 (N.D. Cal. Nov. 8, 2011) (ruling media 
company’s allegation of Twitter password as a trade secret was 
enough to survive 12(b) motion, as the account and private 
Twitter messages revealed customer information and business 
strategies, but noting necessity of “fully developed evidentiary 
record” for more careful consideration “on summary 
judgment”). 
Here, for its conclusion that the passwords in the 
spreadsheet were not trade secrets, the District Court mostly 
relied on a district court case that interpreted Virginia’s trade-
secrets law, State Analysis, Inc. v. American Financial Services 
Association, 621 F. Supp. 2d 309 (E.D. Va. 2009). We think 
this reliance is justified, as we accept the State Analysis Court’s 
trenchant explanation that a password is “simply a series of 
random numbers and letters that is a barrier to” other 
proprietary material. Id. at 321. Although passwords may 
“have economic value” if “integral to accessing [proprietary 
information], they have no independent economic value in the 
way a formula or a customer list might have.” Id. (emphasis in 
original). Thus, when “a plaintiff has not alleged that its 
passwords are the product of any special formula or algorithm 
that it developed, the passwords are not trade secrets.” Id. 
Before us, NRA does not allege that the passwords were 
the “product of any special formula or algorithm. ” Id. Rather, 
it misses the point entirely by arguing about the sensitivity and 
economic value of customer information, which the passwords 
were not. Those passwords granted access to client databases 
and other business-use information. But imagine they instead 
protected a website with pictures of cute puppies or a beloved 
couple’s wedding registry. (And NRA is assuredly not in the 
business of chihuahuas or china sets .) Because the revealed 

content would have no economic value to NRA, there is no 
serious claim the passwords would either. That is because it is 
what the passwords protect, not the passwords, that is valuable. 
In any event, while the leak of actual trade secrets with 
independent economic value can endanger a business, NRA 
immediately remedied the problem by simply changing the 
passwords. (Query whether Coca-Cola could remedy the leak 
of its recipe, a quintessential trade secret, merely by changing 
the ingredients in Coke.) The passwords in the spreadsheet 
shared by Durenleau and Badaczewski were “numbers and 
letters,” State Analysis, 621 F. Supp. 2d at 321, that blocked 
the proprietary information that did have independent 
economic value: NRA’s business records and customer 
databases. 
In response, NRA seeks support from our 
nonprecedential opinion in Estate of Accurso v. Infra -Red 
Services, Inc., 805 F. App’x 95 (3d Cir. 2020). But in that case 
we did not have reason to scrutinize whether passwords can be 
trade secrets. A jury found Accurso had “misappropriated” a 
roofing company’s “trade secrets,” including that company’s 
“password and ID to . . . a database containing information 
about pricing of certain roofing jobs, past customers, and 
prospective customers.” Id. at 10 6. On appeal, Accurso 
challenged the jury’s finding that the database ID and password 
constituted a trade secret, arguing “that Defendants did not 
‘own’ the ID and password information. ” Id. Because 
Accurso’s argument focused on ownership, we did not address 
whether the passwords had independent economic value. 
Rather, we assumed, without deciding, that the password 
information was a trade secret, concluding “[t]he jury 
could . . . have determined that Accurso misappropriated this 
information because ” his using it was a “violation” of 
“confidence.” Id. (quotation omitted). Accurso does not work 
the magic NRA wishes it did. 

We agree with the District Court and hold that these 
passwords, which had no independent economic value , were 
not trade secrets under the DTSA and PUTSA. 
C. All three of NRA’s state-law tort claims fail. 
Based on the employees’ actions to access Durenleau’s 
computer and email the spreadsheet, NRA sued Durenleau and 
Badaczewski for civil conspiracy and breach of the common -
law duty of loyalty . It also sued Durenleau for fraud for her 
altering of performance-bonus records. We affirm the District 
Court’s judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewski on each of 
these state-law counts. 
1. NRA’s claim of civil conspiracy fails because there is 
no object of the conspiracy and the employees did 
not act maliciously. 
NRA alleges civil conspiracy on the ground that 
Durenleau and Badaczewski conspired to violate various 
federal and state statutes. Because there was no such violation, 
and because NRA cannot show the employees acted with the 
required malicious intent, NRA loses. 
“Claims for civil conspiracy under Pennsylvania 
common law,” as NRA’s claim here, “must be based upon an 
independent underlying civil cause of action. ” Bro-Tech, 651 
F. Supp. 2d at 418. Along with proving that civil violation, the 
plaintiff must show it was the object of a conspiracy. Gen. 
Refractories Co. v. Fireman’s Fund Ins., 337 F.3d 297, 313 (3d 
Cir. 2003). A plaintiff must also show “[p]roof of malice ”—
that the conspiracy was committed with “intent to do an 
unlawful act or to do an otherwise lawful act by unlawful 
means” and “an intent to injure . . . absent justification.” 
Thompson Coal Co. v. Pike Coal Co., 412 A.2d 466, 472 (Pa. 
1979). This is a demanding standard: malicious intent must be 
the “sole purpose” of the conspiracy. Bro-Tech, 651 F. Supp. 
2d at 41 9 (emphasis in original) (quotation omitted). Put 
another way, “proof of acts which are equally consi stent with 

innocence” is “not sufficient ” to prove malice. Scully v. US 
WATS, Inc., 238 F.3d 497, 516 (3d Cir. 2001) (quoting Fife v. 
Great Atl. & Pac. Tea Co., 52 A.2d 24, 27 (Pa. 1947)). 
For two reasons, NRA cannot succeed on its claim of 
civil conspiracy. 
First, there is no viable free -standing cause of action, 
Bro-Tech., 651 F. Supp. 2d at 418, so even had Durenleau and 
Badaczewski conspired, there is no object of that conspiracy. 
NRA pled violations of the CFAA, DTSA, and PUTSA as the 
causes of action underlying its civil -conspiracy claim. As we 
have explained, see Parts III.A and III.B above, Durenleau and 
Badaczewski did not violate those statutes, so NRA’s 
conspiracy claim fails at the threshold. 
Second, and for good measure, NRA cannot show 
malice. Its best argument is an invitation to speculate wildly: 
the employees “communicated via text and cell phone 
numerous times ” on the days when Badaczewski accessed 
Durenleau’s files. Opening Br. 48. NRA asks us to rule in its 
favor because the employees have not “provided any legitimate 
business reason for their actions .” Opening Br. 49. T his is 
wrong twice. For starters, the employees have repeatedly said 
that they communicated to help Durenleau solve the looming 
licensing registration problem. See, e.g. , App. 3274 
(Badaczewski’s deposition, in which she states Durenleau “had 
no way of accessing her files ” while “on COVID leave ” and 
“she called me to . . . send over something so she could do her 
job”); App. 316 3–64 (Durenleau’s deposition, in which she 
explains she “needed” the “Excel file to get passwords ”). But 
even if the employees hadn ’t explained this, it is NRA ’s own 
burden, as the plaintiff, to prove malice. The best it can muster 
is “proof of acts which are equally consistent with innocence,” 
evidence that is “not sufficient. ” Scully, 238 F.3d at 516 
(quotation omitted). 

2. Durenleau and Badaczewski did not breach their 
common-law duty of loyalty because they did not 
compete with NRA. 
NRA alleges that Durenleau’s creation of the password 
spreadsheet and Badaczewski ’s assistance in emailing it 
combine to show the employees violated their duty of loyalty, 
which required them to act in NRA ’s best interest. 11 At best, 
this argument overreads Pennsylvania law on an employee ’s 
duty of loyalty; at worst, it would create civil liability for a 
wide array of employee infractions. We reject it. 
Pennsylvania law “dictates that an employee, as the 
agent of [her] employer, owes [ that] employer a duty of 
loyalty.” Synthes, 25 F. Supp. 3d at 667. Nested in the broader 
duty of loyalty are specific obligations: to avoid competing 
with the employer, aiding the employer’s competitors, or using 
the property or confidential information of the employer “for 
the [employee’s] own purpose[s] or those of a third party.” Id. 
(citing Restatement (Third) of Agency § § 8.04, 8.05 (2006) 
and Reading Radio, Inc. v. Fink, 833 A.2d 199, 211 (Pa. Super. 
Ct. 2003)). 
So to prove a duty-of-loyalty breach, NRA must show 
(1) that Durenleau and Badaczewski intentionally or 
negligently failed to act in good faith and solely for NRA’s 
benefit in their employment, (2) that NRA was injured, and (3) 
that their failure to act solely for NRA ’s benefit was a “real 
factor” in causing NRA’s injuries. McDermott v. Party City 

11 In its summary-judgment briefing at the District Court, NRA 
argued Durenleau’s failure to renew timely the Wyoming 
license was yet another breach of this duty. The District Court 
ruled NRA forfeited this argument by not including it in its 
initial or amended complaints. NRA does not challenge that 
ruling here. 

Corp., 11 F. Supp. 2d 612, 626 n.18 (E.D. Pa. 1998) (citing Pa. 
Suggested Standard Civil Jury Instructions § 4.16 (1991)). 
Even if we spot NRA the last two elements, it cannot 
prove that the employees ’ actions satisfy the first, which 
requires showing Durenleau and Badaczewski did not act for 
NRA’s benefit. Given all we know about the events in 
question, we agree with the District Court that there is “no 
evidence that Durenleau or Badaczewski used the information 
in any way other than to resolve the licensing issue.” App. 48. 
Still, NRA resists this ruling by arguing that , actually, 
“[e]vidence of competition is not required to support a claim” 
for breach of the duty of loyalty, Opening Br. 49 (emphasis 
added), characterizing some cases as holding that the duty also 
requires an employee to “conduct the employer ’s business in 
the employer ’s best interest, attentively and responsibly. ” 
Opening Br. 50 –51. Left unexamined , this principle might 
support a claim that Durenleau’s maintenance of the password 
spreadsheet, in violation of NRA ’s security policies, was not 
“attentive[]” or “responsibl[e].” Id. But each of the cases NRA 
cites for this invented duty still involves competition in some 
flavor; none finds a breach simply because an employee 
violated workplace policies. Solid Wood Cabinet Co. v. 
Partners Home Supply, 2015 WL 1208182, at * 7–8 (E.D. Pa. 
Mar. 13, 2015) (finding employee may have diverted some of 
his former employer ’s business to a competitor, his later 
employer); PNC Mortg. v. Superior Mortg. Corp. , 2012 WL 
628000, at *26 (E.D. Pa. Feb. 27, 2012) ( reasoning former 
bank employees may have misappropriated cust omer lists, 
documents, and other confidential information when hired by 
competitor); Westfield Grp. v. Campisi, 2006 WL 328415, at 
*19 (W.D. Pa. Feb. 10, 2006) (in fully inapplicable 
circumstances, finding possible breach where lender did not 
inform borrowers of unfavorable loan terms, which lender 
should have known borrowers could not afford). Nothing in 
these cases looks as benign as what we have here. 

At its core, the duty of loyalty owed by an employee 
under Pennsylvania law presumes that “no [wo]man can serve 
two masters.” Onorato v. Wissahickon Park, Inc., 244 A.2d 22, 
25 (Pa. 1968) (citing Matthew 6:24). An employee has a duty 
not to compete, to look out for the employer ’s financial and 
competitive interests, and not to arrogate the employer’s assets 
or business opportunities for herself. NRA cannot prove 
Durenleau and Badaczewski breached their duties, so we 
affirm. 
3. Durenleau did not commit fraud by collecting 
bonuses on accounts she believed entitled her to 
bonus payments, even if that belief was mistaken. 
NRA claims Durenleau committed fraud by moving 
accounts into the compliance workgroup, entitling her to bonus 
payments that NRA does not believe she earned. To succeed 
on its claim of fraud under Pennsylvania law, NRA must prove 
Durenleau moved the accounts to her workgroup knowing 
those transfers were false or with other intent to deceive NRA. 
SodexoMAGIC, LLC v. Drexel Univ. , 24 F.4th 183, 205 (3d 
Cir. 2022). The District Court ruled she did not possess the 
required knowledge that she was deceiving or defrauding 
NRA. We agree. 
NRA has not shown a genuine dispute, Fed. R. Civ. P. 
56(a), as to Durenleau ’s mental state. As evidence of her 
fraudulent intent, NRA offers that Durenleau, during the audit 
of the accounts she moved, asked an executive, “[D]id I do 
something wrong? ”; could not point to a written policy 
allowing her to move the accounts; and did not challenge the 
written warning she received after the audit. App. 742. (She 
resigned soon after, instead. ) To counter NRA ’s allegations, 
Durenleau has introduced evidence that different rules applied 
to her as head of compliance and that she thought she was 
following them. 

At bottom, while there may be a dispute about whether 
there was a different policy for Durenleau ’s bonus payments 
and what that policy required, NRA has not shown a genuine 
dispute about the legally relevant question: whether Durenleau 
committed fraud by moving the accounts with knowledge she 
was making a false representation or with intent to deceive 
NRA. SodexoMAGIC, 24 F.4th at 205. As the District Court 
reasoned, NRA’s evidence at best requires we speculate that 
Durenleau’s (1) confusion about the policy, (2) asking whether 
she did something wrong, and (3) silence despite discipline all 
combine to show an intent to deceive. But “[s]peculation and 
conjecture may not defeat a motion for summary judgment. ” 
Wharton v. Danberg , 854 F.3d 234, 244 (3d Cir. 2017) 
(quotation omitted) . Because NRA offers nothing more, we 
affirm. 
* * * 
The CFAA does not reach these violations of workplace 
computer-use policies, the passwords were not trade secrets , 
and each of NRA ’s state -law tort claims flunks a critical 
element. For these reasons, we affirm the District Court ’s 
judgment for Durenleau and Badaczewski on all of NRA ’s 
claims against them.