In the 
United States Court of Appeals 
For the Seventh Circuit 
____________________ 
No. 20-3389 
DIANE BURKE, et al., as participants in and on behalf of the 
Boeing Voluntary Investment Plan, and on behalf of a class 
of all others who are similarly situated, 
Plaintiffs-Appellants, 
v. 
THE BOEING COMPANY, et al., 
Defendants-Appellees. 
____________________ 
Appeal from the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division. 
No. 1:19-cv-02203 — Virginia M. Kendall, Judge. 
____________________ 
ARGUED MAY 21, 2021 — DECIDED AUGUST 1, 2022 
____________________ 
Before SYKES, Chief Judge, and RIPPLE and HAMILTON, Cir-
cuit Judges. 
HAMILTON, Circuit Judge. This appeal presents new varia-
tions on issues that often arise when the value of employer 
stock held by an employee stock ownership plan drops sub-
stantially. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
(ERISA) allows company insiders to ser ve as fiduciaries of 
2 No. 20-3389 
employee benefit plans, so that they owe fiduciary duties both 
to plan participants and to the company. See Pub. L. No. 93 -
406, 88 Stat. 829 (1974) (codified in various sections of 
29 U.S.C.); see also 29 U.S.C. § 1108(c)(3); Halperin v. Richards, 
7 F.4th 534, 542 (7th Cir. 2021). Such insiders also have obliga-
tions to all shareholders under securities laws. 
For decades, employees unhappy about dropping stock 
values in employee stock ownership plans have tried to use 
ERISA to obtain re lief from the ERISA fiduciaries and their 
employers. At the foundation of the early eﬀorts was a theory 
that when an employer’s business ran into serious trouble that 
would cause the stock value to drop, company insiders with 
fiduciary duties under ERISA were obliged to use inside in-
formation about those troubles for the benefit of employee -
shareholders at the (implicit) expense of other shareholders. 
That theory would conflict directly with federal securities 
laws. The Supreme Court made clear in Fifth Th ird Bancorp v. 
Dudenhoeﬀer, 573 U.S. 409 (2014), that ERISA does not require 
fiduciaries to violate securities laws on insider trading. 
In trying to reconcile ERISA and federal securities laws, 
however, Dudenhoeﬀer left open at least a theoretical possibil-
ity for employees to seek relief under ERISA on a theory that 
plan fiduciaries had a duty to disclose bad news to everyone. 
Yet as part of the balance between ERISA and securities law, 
Dudenhoeﬀer imposed demanding pleading standards for 
such claims, requiring plaintiﬀs to plausibly allege an alterna-
tive action the defendant could have taken that would have 
been consistent with securities law and that a prudent fiduci-
ary in the same circumstances would not have viewed as 
more likely to harm the employee stock ownership fund than 
to help it. 573 U.S. at 428. Since Dudenhoeﬀer, plaintiﬀs in 
No. 20-3389 3 
ERISA stock-drop cases have been trying to satisfy, limit, or 
avoid those pleading standards. 
This court and others have long responded to ERISA fidu-
ciaries’ sometimes-conflicting interests by suggesting that the 
conflicted fiduciaries step aside in favor of new, independent 
fiduciaries who can focus exclusively on the interests of 
ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. E.g., Leigh v. Engle, 
727 F.2d 113, 125 (7th Cir. 1984); Donovan v. Bierwirth, 680 F.2d 
263, 271−72 (2d Cir. 1982). 
Many years ago, The Boeing Company adopted that ap-
proach for its employee stock ownership plan, also known as 
an “ESOP.” Boeing plan fiduciaries delegated to an independ-
ent outside fiduciary the selection and management of invest-
ment options for the ESOP. The central question here is 
whether the delegation of those investment responsibilities 
protects the company and company insiders from liability for 
the plan’s continued oﬀering of Boeing stock as an investment 
option for employees before and during a time when the 
value of Boeing stock dropped significantly. The drop oc-
curred after two fatal crashes of new Boeing 737 MAX airlin-
ers led to a worldwide grounding of those planes and a ha lt 
to production. We agree with the district court that the dele-
gation of investment decisions to an independent fiduciary 
means that neither Boeing nor the other defendants acted in 
an ERISA fiduciary capacity in connection with the continued 
investments in Boeing stock. We aﬃrm the district court’s dis-
missal of the action. 
4 No. 20-3389 
I. Factual and Procedural Background 
A. The Boeing Company’s Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
The Boeing Company designs and manufactures commer-
cial jets and defense, space, and security systems. Plaintiﬀs are 
Boeing employees who participated in the Boeing Voluntary 
Investment Plan (the “Plan”), a 401(k) plan that Boeing spon-
sors for eligible employees. 
The Plan is an employee benefit plan and employee pen-
sion benefit plan covered by ERISA. See 29 U.S.C. 
§ 1002(2)(A). Boeing employees may allocate a percentage of 
their earnings to be invested in the Plan. See §§ 1002(34) & 
1107(d)(3). At all relevant times, one investment option has 
been the Boeing Stock Fund. Plaintiﬀs are Plan participants 
whose savings were invested in the Boeing Stock Fund be-
tween November 7, 2018, and December 16, 2019 (the “Class 
Period”). The defendants are Boeing itself, its Employee Ben-
efit Plans Committee (the “Plans Committee”), which is the 
Plan Administrator under 29 U.S.C. § 1002(16)(A), responsible 
for administering the Plan, and the Employee Benefit Invest-
ment Committee (the “Investment Committee”), which over-
sees the Plan’s investment options, plus named and unnamed 
Boeing oﬃcials who served on one or both committees. 
B. The Third-Party Delegation 
In December 2007, the Investment Committee began con-
tracting with an outside trust company to manage the Plan’s 
investments in Boeing stock. During the Class Period for this 
case, the outside fiduciary was Newport Trust Company. The 
operative agreement between the Investment Committee and 
Newport Trust provided: 
No. 20-3389 5 
As investment manager, [Newport Trust] will at 
all times have the exclusive fiduciary authority 
and responsibility, in its sole discretion, to de-
termine wh ether the continuing investment in 
the [Boeing] Stock Fund is prudent under 
ERISA (either with respect to permitting new in-
vestments in the [Boeing] Stock Fund, continu-
ing to hold [Boeing] Stock, or both). 
The agreement further provided: 
In exercising its authority and responsibility [as 
investment manager], [Newport Trust has] the 
authority to exercise any and all of the following 
powers, and to instruct the trustee of the Plan 
accordingly: 
(i) to suspend or prohibit the investment of 
new participant or employer contributions 
in the [Boeing] Stock Fund; 
(ii) to suspend or prohibit the transfer of par-
ticipant account balances into the [Boeing] 
Stock Fund; 
(iii) in connection with the determination that 
holding [Boeing] Stock is no longer pru-
dent under ERISA, to liquidate the [Boe-
ing] Stock Fund and to sell or otherwise 
dispose of all of the [Boeing] Stock held in 
the [Boeing] Stock Fund …. 
6 No. 20-3389 
The 2017 Financial Statements for the Plan said that the Plan 
had 
authorized Newport with sole responsibility for 
deciding whether to restrict investment in the 
Boeing Stock Fund, or to sell or otherwise dis-
pose of all or any portion of the stock held in the 
Boeing Stock Fund. In the event Newport deter-
mined to sell or dispose of stock in the Boeing 
Stock Fund, Newport would designate an alter-
native investment fund under the Plan for the 
temporary investment of any proceeds from the 
sale or other disposition of the Company’s com-
mon stock. 
Newport is not named as a defendant in this case. 
C. Plaintiﬀs’ Allegations 
In October 2018, Boeing had for at least a year been selling 
the new 737 MAX version of its best -selling 737 series of air-
liners. On October 29, 2018, a Lion Air 737 MAX airliner 
crashed into the Java Sea, kil ling everyone aboard. Plaintiﬀs 
here allege that soon after the crash, and especially once the 
flight data recorder was retrieved, defendants knew or should 
have known that all 737 MAX planes were unsafe to fly be-
cause of known problems with a new automated flight control 
system that Boeing had added to the 737 MAX. On March 10, 
2019, another 737 MAX crashed in Ethiopia, again killing eve-
ryone aboard. Plaintiﬀs here allege that the second crash also 
resulted from the known problems with the automated flight 
control system. The 737 MAX fleet was soon grounded world-
wide. On December 16, 2019—the close of the Class Period—
No. 20-3389 7 
Boeing announced that it would suspend production of new 
737 MAX jets beginning in January 2020. 
The human, financial, and legal consequen ces of the 737 
MAX crashes have been huge. This lawsuit presents a small 
and relatively narrow set of questions about whether Boeing 
employees are entitled to relief from some of the financial con-
sequences of the 737 MAX disasters. 
Plaintiﬀs allege here that defendants breached several du-
ties imposed on plan fiduciaries by ERISA: (i) the duties of 
prudence and loyalty under ERISA § 404(a)(1); (ii) the duty to 
monitor investments under ERISA § 404(a)(1); and (iii) the co-
fiduciary duty under ERISA § 405(a)(1)–(3). Plaintiﬀs’ allega-
tions rest on the theory that by November 7, 2018—one week 
after recovery of the flight data recorder from the first 737 
MAX crash—defendants should have issued a corrective pub-
lic disclosure saying that the 737 MAX was not safe to fly. 
D. Proceedings Before the District Court 
Plaintiﬀs filed this putative class action in March 2019, 
shortly after the second 737 MAX crash. The operative second 
amended complaint alleges that throughout the Class Period, 
from November 7, 2018 to December 16, 2019, Boeing’s con-
tinuous concealment of material facts relating to the 737 MAX 
jets caused the price of Boeing stock to be artificially inflated. 
By November 7, 2018, plaintiﬀs allege, defendants knew or 
should have known that public disclosu re of these safety is-
sues was inevitable and should have taken steps to disclose 
them to the public immediately. 
In Count One, plaintiﬀs allege that the individual defend-
ants, the Plans Committee, and the Investment Committee, as 
fiduciaries of the Boein g Stock Fund, breached the duty of 
8 No. 20-3389 
prudence under ERISA § 404(a), 29 U.S.C. § 1104(a). Because 
these defendants failed to promptly disclose safety issues 
with the 737 MAX, plaintiﬀs and other Class members contin-
ued to acquire and hold Boeing stock at an artificially inflated 
price. With respect to Boeing, plaintiﬀs allege that the corpo-
ration knew about and encouraged individual defendants’ 
continued concealment of material facts relating to the 737 
MAX jets —and that the concealment itself was a corporate 
strategy. Under the same theory of failure to disclose correc-
tive information, plaintiﬀs also allege that defendants 
breached their duty of loyalty under ERISA § 404(a), 29 U.S.C. 
§ 1104(a). 
In Count Two, plaintiﬀs allege that defendants breached 
the duty to monitor investments under ERISA § 404(a), 
29 U.S.C. § 1104(a). In Count Three, plaintiﬀs allege that de-
fendants are liable as co- fiduciaries for the breaches of other 
Boeing Stock Fund fiduciaries under ERISA § 405(a), 29 U.S.C. 
§ 1105(a). 
The district court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss 
under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), holding that 
plaintiﬀs’ allegations were lacking in two key respects. First, 
the court held that none of the defendants were acting as fi-
duciaries of the Boeing Stock Fund. Burke v. Boeing Co., 500 F. 
Supp. 3d 717, 725 (N.D. Ill. 2020). Second, the court held that 
plaintiﬀs otherwise failed to state a claim for breach of the 
duty of prudence by failing to meet the “demanding” stand-
ard for duty of prudence claims set forth in Fifth Third Bancorp 
v. Dudenhoeﬀer, 573 U.S. 409 (2014). Id. at 725–27. 
The district court also held that plaintiﬀs failed to state a 
claim for failure to monitor investments insofar as that claim 
was subject to the same pleading standard as the imprudence 
No. 20-3389 9 
claim, and that plaintiﬀs failed to state a claim for breach of 
co-fiduciary duties insofar as that claim was derivative of the 
imprudence and failure-to-monitor claims. The court did not 
separately address plaintiﬀs ’ disloyalty claim. Id. at 727–28. 
The court dismissed the second amended complaint without 
prejudice, granting plaintiﬀs leave to file a third amended 
complaint. Id. at 728. Plaintiﬀs did not take advantage of that 
opportunity. The district court entere d final judgment dis-
missing the action with prejudice, and plaintiﬀs have ap-
pealed based on the second amended complaint. 
II. Standard of Review 
We review de novo the district court’s dismissal for failure 
to state a claim, and we may aﬃrm the district court’s decision 
on any ground for dismissal contained in the record, at least 
as long as the losing parties had a fair opportunity to be heard 
on it. E.g., Larson v. United Healthcare Ins. Co., 723 F.3d 905, 910 
(7th Cir. 2013); see also Ewell v. Toney , 853 F.3d 911, 919 (7th 
Cir. 2017); Dibble v. Quinn , 793 F.3d 803, 807 (7th Cir. 2015) . 
We construe the complaint in the light most favorable to 
plaintiﬀs, accepting all well- pleaded facts as true and draw-
ing reasonable inferences in plaintiﬀs’ favor. Bator v. District 
Council 4, 972 F.3d 924, 928 (7th Cir. 2020). 
III. Analysis 
A. Defendants’ Fiduciary Obligations Under the Plan 
ERISA imposes on plan fiduciaries duties of prudence and 
loyalty. Plan fiduciaries have a duty to manage plan assets un-
der a “prudent man standard of care,” that is, “solely in the 
interest of the participants and beneficiaries,” and “with the 
care, skill, prudence, and diligence … that a prudent man act-
ing in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would 
10 No. 20-3389 
use” under the circumstances. 29 U.S.C. § 1104(a)(1)(B). One 
fiduciary may also be held liable for another’s breach if the 
first one knowingly participated in or enabled the other’s 
breach, or knew about it and failed to make reasonable eﬀorts 
to remedy that breach. § 1105(a). In this case, plaintiﬀs allege 
that defendants breached four fiduciary duties: (i) the duty of 
prudence; (ii) the duty of loyalty; (iii) the duty to monitor in-
vestments; and (iv) the co-fiduciary duty to monitor other fi-
duciaries. 
The core of the case is plain tiﬀs’ imprudence and disloy-
alty claims, which revolve around a theory of failure to dis-
close corrective information. We focus on the duties of pru-
dence and loyalty and the tensions that employee stock own-
ership plans create at the intersection of ERISA, c orporation 
law, and securities law. See generally Dudenhoeﬀer, 573 U.S. at 
427−30 (explaining reasons for demanding pleading standard 
in ESOP stock- drop cases); Halperin v. Richards, 7 F.4th 534, 
542 (7th Cir. 2021) (addressing tension between fiduciary du-
ties under ERISA and state corporation law). 
1. The Duty of Prudence 
In Dudenhoeﬀer, the Supreme Court adopted a demanding 
pleading standard for duty of prudence claims involving fi-
duciaries for benefit plans invested in employer stock. 573 
U.S. 409. A plaintiﬀ must “plausibly allege an alternative ac-
tion that the defendant could have taken that would have 
been consistent with the securities laws and that a prudent 
fiduciary in the same circumstances would not have viewed 
as more likely to harm the fund than to help it.” Id. at 428. The 
Court explained that this standard reflected the competing 
congressional purposes of ERISA: to encourage the creation 
of employee stock ownership plans while ensuring that plan 
No. 20-3389 11 
participants could fairly and promptly enforce their rights un-
der a plan. Id. at 424–25. 
To guide lower courts in applying the “m ore harm than 
good” standard, the Court emphasized three principles. 573 
U.S. at 428. First, the duty of prudence does not demand that 
a fiduciary break the law: the duty of prudence “cannot re-
quire an ESOP fiduciary to perform an action—such as divest-
ing the fund’s holdings of the employer’s stock on the basis of 
inside information—that would violate the securities laws.” 
Id. Second, where a complaint faults fiduciaries for failure to 
act on the basis of inside information or to disclose inside in-
formation to the public, courts should consider whether 
ERISA-based obligations implicating insider information 
“could conflict with the complex insider trading and corpo-
rate disclosure requirements imposed by the federal securities 
laws.” Id. at 429. Third, courts should consider whether the 
complaint has plausibly alleged that a prudent fiduciary in 
the defendant’s position could not have concluded that halt-
ing investment in the employer’s stock or publicly disclosing 
damaging insider information would spook the market, caus-
ing the stock price to drop. Id. at 429–30. 
2. The Duty of Loyalty 
ERISA’s more general duty of loyalty requires that plan 
fiduciaries perform their duties with respect to a plan solely 
in the interest of plan participants and beneficiaries. 29 U.S.C. 
§ 1104(a)(1). ESOP stock-drop plaintiﬀs can and frequently do 
plead disloyalty claims alongside their imprudence claims —
as plaintiﬀs do here. We agree with the Eighth Circuit that 
plaintiﬀs “cannot use the duty of loyalty ‘to circumvent the 
demanding Dudenhoeﬀer standard’ for duty of prudence 
claims.” Dormani v. Target Corp. , 970 F.3d 910, 917 (8th Cir. 
12 No. 20-3389 
2020), quoting Allen v. Wells Fargo & Co., 967 F.3d 767, 777 (8th 
Cir. 2020). 
B. Eﬀects of the Delegations on Defendants’ Duties to the Plan 
Before we wade more deeply into the duties owed by plan 
fiduciaries to plan participants, we must address a threshold 
question: whether any defendant was acting in a fiduciary ca-
pacity at the time he, she, or it took the actions that are the 
subject of the complaint. Pegram v. Herdrich, 530 U.S. 211, 226 
(2000); Leimkuehler v. American United Life Ins. Co. , 713 F.3d 
905, 913 (7th Cir. 2013). 
ERISA provides in relevant part that a person or entity is 
an ERISA fiduciary only 
to the extent that he: (i) exercises any discretion-
ary authority or discretionary control respect-
ing management of such plan or exercises any 
authority or control respecting management or 
disposition of its assets, (ii) he renders invest-
ment advice for a fee or other compensation, di-
rect or indirect, with respect to any moneys or 
other property of such plan, or has any author-
ity or responsibility to do so, or (iii) he has any 
discretionary authority or discretionary respon-
sibility in the administration of such plan. 
29 U.S.C. § 1002(21)(A). In other words, fiduciary status under 
§ 1002(21)(A) is not “all -or-nothing.” Coleman v. Nationwide 
Life Ins. Co. , 969 F.2d 54, 61 (4th Cir. 1992). A fiduciary who 
wears two hats—as a corporate fiduciary and an ERISA fidu-
ciary—“wear[s] only one at a time,” wearing “the fiduciary 
hat when making fiduciary decisions.” Pegram, 530 U.S. at 225. 
ERISA “does not describe fiduciaries simply as 
No. 20-3389 13 
administrators of the plan, or managers or advisers. Instead, 
it defines an administrator, for example, as a fiduciary “only 
‘to the extent’ that he acts in such a capacity in relation to a 
plan.” Id. at 225–26, quoting 29 U.S.C. § 1002(21)(A). 
Fiduciary status thus depends not on formal titles but on 
“functional terms of control and authority over the plan.” 
Mertens v. Hewitt Assocs. , 508 U.S. 248, 262 (1993). To that ef-
fect, two types of fiduciaries exist under ERISA: “named” fi-
duciaries and “functional” fiduciaries. See id. at 251. Named 
fiduciaries refers to pe rsons who are “named in the plan in-
strument, or who, pursuant to a procedure specified in the 
plan” are given express “authority to control and manage the 
operation … of the plan.” 29 U.S.C. § 1102(a)(1)–(2). Func-
tional fiduciaries might not be named in th e plan document 
but still exercise “discretionary control or authority over the 
plan’s management, administration, or assets.” Mertens, 508 
U.S. at 251, citing § 1002(21)(A). As part of their express au-
thority and control to manage the plan, named fiduciar ies 
may also designate an individual, committee, or professional 
plan administrator to carry out fiduciary responsibilities. 
§ 1105(c)(1). 
Here, plaintiﬀs allege that defendants are or were either 
named or functional fiduciaries under ERISA and therefor e 
owed “strict fiduciary duties of loyalty and prudence to the 
Plan and the participants in and beneficiaries of the Plan.” We 
divide our discussion into four principal parts: (1) the role of 
defendant Plans Committee; (2) the role of defendant Boeing; 
(3) defendant Investment Committee’s delegation to Newport 
of fiduciary authority over the Boeing Stock Fund; and 
(4) plaintiﬀs’ theory that the Investment Committee retained 
14 No. 20-3389 
a non-delegable duty under ERISA to make immediate public 
disclosures of inside information. 
1. The Plans Committee 
Plaintiﬀs contend that defendant Plans Committee was 
identified as the Plan Administrator in the Summary Plan De-
scription, and that the “Plan Administrator” was identified in 
the Plan document as the Plan’s named fiduciary un der 
ERISA § 402(a), 29 U.S.C. § 1102(a). Plaintiﬀs argue it is “be-
yond dispute” that the Plans Committee was a named fiduci-
ary with “presumptive general authority with respect to the 
Plan.” The premise is correct but the conclusion is not. 
As the district court correctly found, the Plans Committee 
had no fiduciary responsibility over the investment choices of 
the Boeing Stock Fund. As the Plan Administrator under 
ERISA § 3(16), 29 U.S.C.A. § 1002(16), the Plans Committee’s 
responsibilities over the Boeing Stock Fund are limited to “all 
matters related to administration of the Plan.” Its administra-
tive responsibilities included the full discretionary authority 
to: (i) interpret the Plan; (ii) determine questions of participa-
tion eligibility and benefits entitlement related to the Plan; 
(iii) establish rules and procedures for Plan administration; 
(iv) maintain accounts; and (v) generate annual reports. The 
Plans Committee was also tasked with “provid[ing] infor-
mation to Members regarding the Investment Funds available 
under the Plan, including a description of the investment ob-
jectives and types of investments of each such Investment 
Fund.” 
As the Plan document states, the Plans Committee’s role 
as Plan Administrator did not vest it with any responsibility, 
authority, or discretion to make investment decisions with 
No. 20-3389 15 
respect to the Boeing Stock Fund. Plaintiﬀs’ reliance on the 
Plans Committee’s “presumptive general authority with re-
spect to the Plan,” does not establish a basis for these plain-
tiﬀs’ claims arising from the 737 MAX stock drop because fi-
duciary status under ERISA is defined in “ functional terms of 
control and authority over the plan.” See Mertens, 508 U.S. at 
262. In the case of a plan administrator such as the Plans Com-
mittee, ERISA defines it as a fiduciary “only ‘to the extent’” 
that it acts in such a capacity in relation to the plan. See Pe-
gram, 530 U.S. at 225–26, quoting 29 U.S.C. § 1002(21)(A). 
Here, plaintiﬀs have failed to allege facts indicating that the 
Plans Committee or any of its individual members were act-
ing in a fiduciary capacity related to managing the invest-
ments and investment options of the Boeing Stock Fund. 
2. The Claims Against The Boeing Company 
Plaintiﬀs argue that the district court erred in concluding 
that the remaining defendants —Boeing itself and the Invest-
ment Committee—were not fiduciaries in any relevant capac-
ity because the Investment Committee had previously dele-
gated to Newport its fiduciary duties over the investment 
choices of the Boeing Stock Fund. We first address the claims 
against Boeing and then those against the Investment Com-
mittee and its members. 
There were two steps to the key delegation of responsibil-
ity here to Newport, the third party that plaintiﬀs have not 
sued, for the Plan’s investments and the choices available to 
plan participants. The first step occurred when The Boeing 
Company, as plan sponsor, delegated to the Investment Com-
mittee its authority to invest, reinvest, and manage assets of 
all Boeing employee benefit plans, and to select and mon itor 
investment options for the Plan. Under the Independent 
16 No. 20-3389 
Fiduciary Agreement that eﬀected that delegation, Boeing re-
tained “responsibility in its corporate capacity to comply with 
the requirements of applicable securities laws and ERISA 
with respect to the oﬀering of Company Stock under the 
Plan.” Those requirements, as defendants correctly note, in-
clude filing an annual report required for employee stock pur-
chase, savings, and similar plans (SEC Form 11-K) and a reg-
istration statement allowing Boeing to issue shares of its stock 
to employees through the Plan (SEC Form S-8). 
We see no legal problem with that first delegation of in-
vestment responsibilities from Boeing as plan sponsor to the 
Investment Committee, giving the committee the authority to 
manage assets of all Boeing employee benefit plans, and to se-
lect and monitor investment options for the Plan. That first 
delegation was subject, of course, to duties of prudence and 
loyalty on the part of Boeing. A plan sponsor could not dele-
gate its duties to people or entities if it had reason to doubt 
their ability to carry out their duties competently or honestly. 
But there is no plausible claim here that the first delegation 
violated either of those duties. 
Contrary to plaintiﬀs’ theories here, the mere exercise of 
some authority over Boeing employee benefit plans —here 
Boeing’s retention of administrative corporate compliance 
duties with respect to Boeing stock—did not mean that 
Boeing was exercising fiduciary authority over the investment 
choices and holdings of the Boeing Stock Fund. Those powers 
and duties were clearly delegated to the Investment 
Committee. Boeing, like the Plans Committee, lacked 
No. 20-3389 17 
fiduciary authority with respect to the investments of the 
Boeing Stock Fund during the Class Period.1 
3. The Investment Committee’s Delegation 
The central issues in this case concern the second delega-
tion at issue here: the Investment Committee’s decision to del-
egate to an outside third party responsibility for choosing and 
managing the investments of the Boeing Stock Fund. In deter-
mining that the Investment Committee lacked fiduciary au-
thority with respect to the investments of the Boeing Stock 
Fund, the district court relied on language in the Independent 
Fiduciary Agreement delegating to Newport “exclusive fidu-
ciary authority and responsibility, in its sole discretion, to de-
termine whether the continuing investment in the [Boeing 
Stock Fund] is prudent under ERISA.” Burke, 500 F. Supp. 3d 
at 725. The district court further noted that Newport, as the 
fiduciary responsible for the investments of the Boeing Stock 
Fund, was required to “communicate with participants con-
cerning their investment in the Boeing Stock Fund at such 
times as Newport reasonably determined to be necessary un-
der ERISA or desirable in the discharge of Newport’s duties 
and responsibilities under the Independent Fiduciary Agree-
ment.” Id. (cleaned up). 
Plaintiﬀs argue that the Independent Fiduciary Agree-
ment was much more limited than the district court thought. 

1 To the extent that plaintiffs’ claims against defendant Verbeck, who 
was responsible for signing Boeing’s SEC filings during the Class Period, 
allege fiduciary responsibility over the Boeing Stock Fund by virtue of 
similar “corporate duties,” plaintiffs’ allegations fall short at the threshold 
question of whether Verbeck retained fiduciary authority over the Boeing 
Stock Fund. 
18 No. 20-3389 
Plaintiﬀs claim that any duty not expressly delegated to New-
port in the Independent Fiduciary Agreement remained with 
the Investment Committee, including, most importantly in 
plaintiﬀs’ view, “the duty to make public disclosures of non -
public information.” Plaintiﬀs’ theory of liability is that Boe-
ing insiders, such as members of the Investment Committee, 
had access to material non -public information concerning 
safety issues with the 737 MAX. These insiders failed to dis-
close that information to Newport (and all other shareholders 
and potential investors), rendering Newport incapable of per-
forming its obligations under the Independent Fiduciary 
Agreement. Plaintiﬀs argue that this duty to disclose is part 
of the broader duty of loyalty that cannot be delegated. We 
are not persuaded that ERISA imposes such a duty that would 
be layered on top of federal securities laws governing public 
disclosures of information material to investors. 
The Independent Fiduciary Agreement clearly delegated 
to Newport the decisions that are usually the focus of ESOP 
stock-drop cases: the decisions to allow the Plan and employ-
ees to continue to hold employer stock, and the decision to 
allow employees to continue making new investments in em-
ployer stock. In making those decisions, Newport was not a 
Boeing insider. It was making decisions like any outside in-
vestor, albeit one holding a massive, $11 billion stake in the 
company, on the basis of public information about the com-
pany and its prospects. As noted, a person is an ERISA fidu-
ciary “only ‘to the exte nt’” that she acts in such a capacity in 
relation to the plan. Pegram , 530 U.S. at 225–26, quoting 
29 U.S.C. § 1002(21)(A). During the Class Period, the Invest-
ment Committee did not exercise “discretionary control or au-
thority” over the Boeing Stock Fund’s “management, admin-
istration, or assets.” See Mertens, 508 U.S. at 251, citing 
No. 20-3389 19 
§ 1002(21)(A). Instead, Newport exercised that discretionary 
authority, and plaintiﬀs have not sued Newport. 
The delegation to Newport anticipated exactly this sort of 
case, i n which Boeing insiders would be accused of facing 
conflicting fiduciary loyalties. The delegation was designed to 
remove the dilemma that plaintiﬀs’ theory would force upon 
corporate insiders who exercise fiduciary responsibilities over 
ERISA plans invested in the employer’s stock. We see no legal 
barrier to such a delegation, and decades of ESOP stock-drop 
litigation have provided powerful reasons for employers and 
fiduciaries for ESOPs to take this step.
Newport retained “exclusive fiduciary authority and re-
sponsibility, in its sole discretion” (i) to restrict new invest-
ments into the Boeing Stock Fund; (ii) to prohibit transfers 
into and out of the Boeing Stock Fund; and (iii) in connection 
with the determination that holding Boeing Stock is no longer pru-
dent under ERISA, to liquidate the Boeing Stock Fund and to 
designate an alternative temporary investment for the pro-
ceeds. Accordingly, the Investment Committee and its indi-
vidual members, including defendants Dohnalek and Ver-
beck and the John Doe defendants, cannot be liable for breach-
ing fiduciary duties that they simply did not have. 

2 We should acknowledge how extraordinary this delegation was. 
Boeing insiders delegated to an outsider virtually complete authority to 
decide when the Boeing Stock Fund should abandon current and future 
investments in Boeing stock on behalf of Boeing employees. Yet given the 
decades of ESOP stock-drop litigation, the delegation to avoid an impos-
sible dilemma under ERISA was certainly understandable. 
20 No. 20-3389 
4. A Duty of Immediate Public Disclosure? 
Plaintiﬀs, perhaps anticipating this result, lean more 
heavily on their theory that the defendants’ duty of loyalty 
included a non-delegable duty under ERISA (as opposed to 
federal securities law) to disclose non -public information to 
Plan participants, which after Dudenhoeﬀer would require full 
public disclosure—to all shareholders and potential investors. 
Defendants point ou t that plaintiﬀs’ own allegations 
recognize that the proposed disclosure would have caused 
“massive disruptions in the demand for the 737 MAX,” which 
plaintiﬀs themselves characterized as Boeing’s “flagship” 
aircraft. And since the Plan held nearly $11 b illion in Boeing 
stock in N ovember 2018, even a modest ten percent decline 
would have caused a billion -dollar loss. Defendants argue 
that a prudent fiduciary could have readily concluded that 
immediate public disclosure of negative information would 
do more harm than good to the Boeing Stock Fund, especially 
in light of the multiple investigations—internal and external, 
foreign and domestic—that were just beginning in November 
2018. See Allen v. Wells Fargo & Co ., 967 F.3d 767, 773−76 (8th 
Cir. 2020) (aﬃrming dismissal of claims based on theory that 
ERISA imposed duty to disclose adverse information about 
employer’s business). 
Plaintiﬀs have failed to identify any stand-alone fiduciary 
duty under ERISA to disclose non -public information about 
the employer’s business to Plan participants or the general 
public. As we have said before, a “violation of ERISA’s disclo-
sure requirement, which arises under the general fiduciary 
duties imposed by ERISA § 404(a)(1), 29 U.S.C. § 1104(a)(1), 
requires evidence of either an intentionally misleading state-
ment, or a material omission where the fiduciary’s silence can 
No. 20-3389 21 
be construed as misleading.” Howell v. Motorola, Inc., 633 F.3d 
552, 571 (7th Cir. 2011). We see no support in this language for 
plaintiﬀs’ position —and we have found none elsewhere—
that these general fiduciary duties are non-delegable. Because 
the Investment Committee was not serving as an ERISA fidu-
ciary with respect to the Boeing Stock Fund’s investment 
choices during the Class Period, it cannot be liable for breach 
of general fiduciary duties. 
Further, even if the Investment Committee and its mem-
bers were deemed to have been serving as ERISA fiduciaries 
during the Class Period, plaintiﬀs’ argument would encou n-
ter a second roadblock. In Howell , we explicitly rejected the 
plaintiﬀs’ view that plan fiduciaries were required to provide 
all information about the defendant corporation’s business 
decisions in real time to plan participants. 633 F.3d at 572. We 
also explicitly rejected those plaintiﬀs’ view that a plan fidu-
ciary’s failure to provide information about a bad business 
decision was suﬃcient to make the omission of information a 
violation of ERISA. Id. 
Most critically for our purposes here, we emphasized that 
adopting such a rule would create at least one problem: in-
sider trading in violation of federal securities laws. 633 F.3d 
at 572. Federal securities law has long governed corporate in-
siders’ duties of disclosure of material information to inves-
tors and their duties when they trade corporate stock them-
selves. Securities laws try to balance several competing poli-
cies and duties, and we see no sound basis for saying that 
ERISA adds additional layers of duties to disclose inside in-
formation, at least to the extent plaintiﬀs contend any duty to 
disclose that might survive the Dudenhoeﬀer pleading stand-
ard also cannot be satisfied by delegating investment choices 
22 No. 20-3389 
to an independent outsider. And federal securities laws 
simply do not require immediate disclosure of all bad news. 
At its core, that’s what plaintiﬀs would demand of defend-
ants. Defendants possessed material insider information, 
plaintiﬀs allege, so the ERISA duties of prudence and loyalty 
required that they disclose this information to plan partici-
pants and the public. According to plaintiﬀs, no later than No-
vember 7, 2018—a week after recovery of the flight data re-
corder from the Lion Air crash—defendants knew or should 
have known that the truth about safety issues with the 737 
MAX’s flight control software would eventually become pub-
lic. Plaintiﬀs contend that a prudent fiduciary in defendants’ 
position would therefore have immediately come forward 
with this inside information to correct artificial inflation of 
Boeing’s stock price and to minimize long- term reputational 
harm to the company caused by delayed disclosure of mate-
rial safety defects of the 737 MAX. Under Dudenhoeﬀer, plain-
tiﬀs must allege and later prove that a prudent fiduciary fac-
ing that situation could not have concluded that prompt cor-
rective disclosure to the public would have done more harm 
than good to the Boeing Stock Fund. Put another way, plain-
tiﬀs contend that defendants, to comply with ERISA, should 
have published inside information immediately—regardless 
of any obligations imposed by the federal securities laws. 
Indeed, plaintiﬀs go so far as to contend that corrective 
disclosure not only would not conflict with the federal secu-
rities laws, but that those laws actually required such imme-
diate disclosure. While we do not express an opinion on the 
merits of this argument, we recognize that these plaintiﬀs are 
not alone in taking the position that the duties of prudence 
and loyalty require an ESOP fiduciary to publicly disclose 
No. 20-3389 23 
inside information or to take some action —e.g., divest the 
fund’s holdings or freeze new investment in the fund—on the 
basis of inside information. After Dudenhoeﬀer, similar theo-
ries have been argued in a number of ESOP stock-drop cases.3 
ESOP fiduciaries, who as Dudenhoeﬀer recognized are of-
ten company insiders, can find themselves in a double bind. 
See 573 U.S. at 423; see also Coburn v. Evercore Trust Co., N.A., 
844 F.3d 965, 974 (D.C. Cir. 2016) (Rogers, J., concurring in 

3 See, e.g., In re Allergan ERISA Litig., 975 F.3d 348, 351 –53 (3d Cir. 
2020) (plan participants alleged plan fiduciaries breached duty of pru-
dence by failing to publicly disclose inside information concerning alleged 
price-fixing conspiracy); Dormani, 970 F.3d at 914–15 (plan participants al-
leged plan fiduciaries breached duty of prudence by failing to publicly 
disclose or act on inside information concerning Target Canada’s supply-
chain management); Allen , 967 F.3d at 77 3–75 (plan participants alleged 
plan fiduciaries breached duty of prudence by failing to publicly disclose 
or act on inside information concerning unethical sales practices); Jander v. 
Retirement Plans Committee of IBM, 910 F.3d 620, 622–23 (2d Cir. 2018), judg-
ment reinstated, 962 F.3d 85 (2d Cir. 2020) (plan participants alleged plan 
fiduciaries breached duty of prudence by failing to publicly disclose or act 
on insider information concerning troubled microelec tronics business ); 
Saumer v. Cliffs Natural Res. Inc., 853 F.3d 855, 858 (6th Cir. 2017) (plan par-
ticipants alleged plan fiduciaries breached duty of prudence by failing to 
publicly disclose or act on inside information concerning purchase of an 
iron-ore mine); Whitley v. BP, P.L.C., 838 F.3d 523, 529 (5th Cir. 2016) (plan 
participants alleged plan fiduciaries breached duty of prudence by failing 
to publicly disclose or act on inside information concerning “numerous 
undisclosed safety breaches” prior to Deepwater Horizon explosion); 
Varga v. General Elec. Co., 834 F. App’x 686, 686–87 (2d Cir. 2021) (plan par-
ticipant alleged plan fiduciaries breached duty of prudence by failing to 
publicly disclose or act on inside information concerning liabilities of its 
two insurance subsidiaries); Laffen v. Hewlett-Packard Co., 721 F. App’x 642, 
644 (9th Cir. 2018) (plan participant alleged plan fiduciaries breached duty 
of prudence by failing to publicly disclose or act on inside information 
concerning prior knowledge of whistleblower’s allegations). 
24 No. 20-3389 
judgment) (“The Supreme Court has confirmed that the role 
of ESOP fiduciaries gives rise to the ‘tension’ between the 
‘general duty of prudence’ required of ERISA fiduciaries and 
the authorization of non -diversified, high-risk ESOPs.”) (in-
ternal citation omitted). 
This double bind is precisely why the Investment Com-
mittee had a strong incentive to delegate the fiduciary power 
over investment decisions for the Boeing Stock Fund to an in-
dependent third-party fiduciary. By appointing Newport to 
manage the Boeing Stock Fund, the Investment Committee—
and all other defendants , for that matter—extracted them-
selves from the bind. Of course, the Investment Committee 
did not extract itself from the bind altogether. Nor could it. 
Appointing fiduciaries, like the Investment Committee, have 
an ongoing fiduciary duty to monitor the activities of their ap-
pointees. See 29 U.S.C. §§ 1104(a)(1), 1105(a), & 1105(c); How-
ell, 633 F.3d at 573; Leigh v. Engle, 727 F.2d 113, 134–35 (7th Cir. 
1984). “The duty exists so that a plan administrator or sponsor 
cannot escape liability by passing the buck to another person 
and then turning a blind eye.” Howell , 633 F.3d at 573. But 
there is no allegation that the Investment Committee or other 
defendants did that here. Plaintiﬀs do not allege that defend-
ants breached the duty to monitor their appointees or that 
there were any issues concerning Newport’s honesty or com-
petence. 
Plaintiﬀs argue instead that defendants, as company insid-
ers, failed to disclose to Newport inside information about 
safety issues with the 737 MAX, rendering Newport incapable 
of performing its fiduciary obligations under the Independent 
Fiduciary Agreement. In Howell, as noted above, we rejected 
plaintiﬀs’ argument that the duty to monitor appointees 
No. 20-3389 25 
should require appointing fiduciaries to review all business 
decisions of appointed plan administrators. 633 F.3d at 573. 
We emphasized that imposing such a standard would defeat 
the purpose of having a trustee appointed to run a benefits 
plan in the first place. Id. 
The same logic applies here. The point of having an inde-
pendent fiduciary is of course to give the fiduciary independ-
ence from the appointing fiduciaries. If the independent fidu-
ciary relies on insider information to make investment deci-
sions concerning the employer’s stock, then the independent 
fiduciary would become mired in the very conflict of interest 
that she was appointed to avoid. The Second Circuit has thus 
explained that the duty to monitor appointees does not in-
clude a “duty to keep the plan managers apprised of material, 
non-public information regarding the soundness of [appoint-
ing fiduciaries’ company] as an investment.” Rinehart v. Leh-
man Bros. Holdings Inc., 817 F.3d 56, 68 (2d Cir. 2016) (declin-
ing to alter this view in light of Dudenhoeﬀer) (citation omit-
ted). After the Supreme Court noted in Dudenhoeﬀer that the 
SEC’s views “may well be relevant” on an ERISA-based duty 
to disclose, the United States and the SEC responded: “In the 
view of the SEC and the United States, it would generally be 
inconsistent with the objectives of the securities laws to im-
pose an ERISA-based duty to publicly disclose inside infor-
mation in the absence of a securities -laws duty. And the De-
partment of Labor concurs in the conclusion that ERISA does 
not impose a duty to disclose in those circumstances.” Brief 
for the United States, including the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, as Amicus Curiae Supporting Neither Party at 
18, Retirement Plans Committee of IBM v. Jander, 140 S. Ct. 592 
(2020) (No. 18-1165). 
26 No. 20-3389 
If the Investment Committee—composed of Boeing insid-
ers—had not appointed an independent fiduciary to select 
and manage the Plan’s investments under these circum-
stances, we could easily imagine a diﬀerent case in which 
plaintiﬀs alleged that defendants breached the duty of pru-
dence by failing to appoint an independent fiduciary. Cf. Pfeil 
v. State Street Bank & Trust Co., 806 F.3d 377, 380 (6th Cir. 2015) 
(observing that State Street served as an independent fiduci-
ary of General Motors ESOP during period of “severe” diﬃ-
culties, including bankruptcy, for General Motors); Bunch v. 
W.R. Grace & Co., 555 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 2009) (during reorgan-
ization proceedings, corporate management “took the emi-
nently correct decision of insulating itself” from potential con-
flict of interest with respect to fiduciary duties by “dele-
gat[ing] the relevant decisional power to an independent 
third party” to execute its autonomous determination of 
whether retention or sale of company stock was appropriate); 
DiFelice v. U.S. Airways, Inc., 497 F.3d 410, 421 (4th Cir. 2007) 
(“[A]lthough appointment of an independent fiduciary does 
not ‘whitewash’ a prior fiduciary’s actions, timely appoint-
ment of an independent fiduciary, prompted by concerns 
about the continued prudence of holding company stock un-
der an ERISA plan, does provide some evidence of ‘proce-
dural’ prudence and proper monitoring during the relevant 
period.”); Leigh, 727 F.2d at 134–35 (emphasizing that duty of 
prudence obliges appointing fiduciaries to consider and at-
tempt to minimize known conflicts of interest faced by their 
appointed fiduciaries); Donovan, 680 F.2d at 271 (observing 
that duties of prudence and loyalty require insider-fiduciaries 
“to avoid placing themselves in a position where their acts as 
oﬃcers or directors of the corporation will prevent their 
No. 20-3389 27 
functioning with the complete loyalty to participants de-
manded of them” under ERISA). 
Independent fiduciaries like Newport can serve a valuable 
and legitimate purpose in managing the tension between 
ERISA and federal securities laws. As plaintiﬀs’ arguments 
and defendants’ countera rguments in this case show, the 
“right” choice is fraught with the potential to make several 
“wrong” ones. For example, would it have done more harm 
than good for defendants to publish negative information 
about the 737 MAX just as several investigations were picking 
up speed in early November 2018? Plaintiﬀs themselves 
acknowledge that such a disclosure would have caused “mas-
sive disruptions in the demand for the 737 MAX,” leading to 
a sharp drop in the value of Boeing stock. The far more im-
portant practical concerns about safety overshadow concerns 
about stock prices and finances, but whether Boeing failed to 
comply with other legal duties concerning safety will be re-
solved in other forums. 
It is not surprising that the practice by corporate insiders 
of delegating fiduciary duties under ERISA to professional, 
independent third-party firms—like Newport—has grown in 
“prevalence and scope,” according to a 2014 report from the 
U.S. Department of Labor’s Advisory Council on Employee 
Welfare & Pension Benefit Plans. Outsourcing Employee Benefit 
Plan Services at 4 (2014), http://www.dol.gov/sites/de-
fault/files/ebsa/about-ebsa/about-us/erisa-advisory-council/ 
2014ACreport3.pdf (last accessed Aug. 1, 2022). The Advisory 
Council explained that the increased use of th ird-party firms 
as ERISA fiduciaries coincided, in part, with the “increasing 
complexity of employee benefit plan investment and admin-
istration which requires specific expertise that in many cases 
28 No. 20-3389 
can only be provided by third parties.” Id. According to th e 
Advisory Council, plan sponsors most frequently cited the 
following as benefits of delegating fiduciary responsibilities: 
(i) cost and economies of scale; (ii) access to technology; (iii) 
access to legal and compliance expertise; and, most notably 
for our purposes, (iv) limiting plan sponsor fiduciary risk. Id. 
at 5–6.
“Limiting plan sponsor risk” is a practical and prudent ob-
jective for ESOP sponsors and corporate insiders. The ap-
pointment of an independent fiduciary does not completely 
release appointing fiduciaries of all responsibility. But where 

4 Published guidance from lawyers who rep resent and advise 
employers concerning state and federal securities laws, as well as ERISA, 
reflects similar support for delegation of investment choices. 1 Lee T. Polk, 
Operational principles of fiduciary conduct—Management of plan assets, 
ERISA Practice & Litigation § 3:25 (202 1) (“Although independent 
fiduciaries have been a longstanding aspect of ERISA fiduciary law and 
practice, the phenomenon of independent fiduciaries has increased with 
the recent wave of company securities litigation. For participants in ERISA 
plans whose accounts hold company stock, the independent fiduciary 
may mean an extra layer of protection.”); Michael S. Hines and David C. 
Olstein, Dudenhoeffer: An Effective Tool to ‘Weed Out Meritless’ Employer 
Stock Drop Claims? , Practitione r Insights Commentaries (2015) 
(suggesting, post-Dudenhoeffer, that “plan sponsors should re-evaluate the 
practice of appointing investment committee members who are in 
possession of nonpublic information, and consider whether they should 
engage an independent fiduciary to manage employer stock funds”); see 
also Frank P. VanderPloeg, Role -Playing Under ERISA: The Company as 
“Employer” and “Fiduciary,” 9 DePaul Bus. L.J. 259, 278 (1997) 
(“Traditionally, an employer … may make investment decisions under a 
conflict of interest and may derive an incidental benefit, but the employer 
must still have acted with an ‘eye single’ to the interests of participants 
and their beneficiaries…. The best solution is for the employer … to let the 
decision be made by an independent fiduciary.”) (footnote omitted). 
No. 20-3389 29 
company insiders who manage ESOPs are willing to give up 
control to avoid potential conflicts between duties under 
ERISA and their duties under corporation and federal securi-
ties laws, we see no legal obstacles. Quite the opposite. We see 
important benefits associated with th e practice of corporate 
insiders appointing independent fiduciaries to make the 
choices about investments, particularly in employer stock. 
It may be that some other source of law imposed a duty on 
Boeing and other defendants to come forward sooner by pub-
licly disclosing information about the problems with the 737 
MAX automated flight control system. No doubt the tort 
claims by the families of those who died in the second 737 
MAX crash in Ethiopia contend that there were duties to pro-
spective passengers to disclose such information earlier. We 
are not persuaded, however, that the combination of ERISA 
and an employee stock ownership plan plausibly required 
such public disclosures. Under the reasoning of Dudenhoeﬀer, 
plaintiﬀs have not pled circumstances under which a prudent 
fiduciary could not have concluded that such disclosures 
would do more harm than good to Plan participants. 
The remainder of plaintiﬀs’ arguments against the Invest-
ment Committee’s delegation to Newport of fiduciary author-
ity over the Boeing Stock Fund may be dealt with briefly. 
Plaintiﬀs argue that the district court did not adequately con-
sider their duty of loyalty claim. Plaintiﬀs’ allegations about 
the duty of loyalty add nothing to their flawed duty of pru-
dence theory. As noted, we agree with our colleagues on the 
Eighth Circuit that plaintiﬀs cannot use the broader and more 
general duty of loyalty “‘to circumvent the demanding 
Dudenhoeﬀer standard’ for duty of prudence claims.” Dormani, 
970 F.3d at 917, quoting Allen, 967 F.3d at 777. 
30 No. 20-3389 
Plaintiﬀs also asserted during oral argument that if the In-
vestment Committee (or Plans Committee) had consisted of 
lower-level employees not privy to the kind of information 
that senior executives were privy to, committee members 
would have been absolved of the purported non -delegable 
duty to disclose inside information. Notwithstanding the fact 
that plaintiﬀs have not persuaded us there is a stand -alone, 
non-delegable fiduciary duty under ERISA to disclose non -
public information to Plan participants and the general pub-
lic, plaintiﬀs’ position is simply unrealistic, especially as ap-
plied to managing an $11 billion stake in the company. In any 
event, appointing a third- party independent fiduciary 
achieves the same goal without imposing a potential conflict 
of interest on employees at any level. 
The judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED.