21-1686 (L) 
SEC v. Ahmed 

United States Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit 

August Term 2022 
Argued: January 18, 2023 
Decided: June 28, 2023 

Nos. 21-1686, 21-1712 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, 
Plaintiff-Appellee, 
v. 
IFTIKAR A. AHMED, SHALINI AHMED, I.I. 1, A MINOR CHILD, BY AND 
THROUGH HIS NEXT FRIENDS IFTIKAR AND SHALINI AHMED, HIS 
PARENTS, I.I. 2, A MINOR CHILD, BY AND THROUGH HIS NEXT FRIENDS 
IFTIKAR AND SHALINI AHMED, HIS PARENTS, I.I. 3, A MINOR CHILD, BY 
AND THROUGH HIS NEXT FRIENDS IFTIKAR AND SHALINI AHMED, HIS 
PARENTS, I-CUBED DOMAINS, LLC, SHALINI AHMED 2014 GRANTOR 
RETAINED ANNUITY TRUST, DIYA HOLDINGS, LLC, DIYA REAL 
HOLDINGS, LLC, 
Defendants-Appellants, 
v. 
JED HORWITT, 
Receiver-Appellee.*

* The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the caption 
accordingly. 
On Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the District of Connecticut 

Before: W ALKER, RAGGI, and PARK, Circuit Judges. 
Defendant Iftikar Ahmed defrauded his former employer and 
its investors of some $65 million over the span of a decade . His 
scheme ended in 2015 when he was indicted on unrelated insider -
trading charges and a subsequent internal investigation revealed the 
full breadth of his wrongdoing. T he Securities and Exchange 
Commission (“SEC”) brought this civil enforcement action against 
Ahmed for various violations of the securities laws. 
To secure a potential disgorgement judgment, the SEC joined 
Ahmed’s family and related entities as Relief Defend ants, and the 
district court (Arterton, J.) froze Ahmed’s and the Relief Defendants’ 
assets. Ahmed is currently a fugitive from justice, apparently 
residing in India, so the district court excluded him from discovery of 
the SEC’s investigative file. Due to a lack of excess frozen funds, t he 
district court also denied Ahmed access to funds to hire counsel. 
The district court granted the SEC’s motion for summary judgment 
and awarded disgorgement , supplemental enrichment (including 
prejudgment interest and actual gains), and civil penalties against 
Ahmed. T he district court also adopted the SEC’s theory that 
Ahmed is the equitable owner of assets held in the name of the Relief 
Defendants as “nominees.” 
On appeal, Ahmed and the Relief Defendants challe nge the 
district court’s judgment and calculat ion of disgorgement. The 
Relief Defendants also move to stay the liquidation of frozen assets 
by the Receiver -Appellee pending resolution of these consolidated 
appeals. We affirm the district court’s (1) exclusion of Ahmed from 
discovery and denial of his access to frozen funds to hire counsel ; 
(2) calculation of Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation ; and 
(3) retroactive application of the 2021 amendments to the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 to Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation . We 
conclude, however, that the district court (4) failed to assess whether 
actual gains on the frozen assets were unduly remote from Ahmed’s 
fraud, and (5) should have applied an asset -by-asset approach to 
determine whether the Relief Defendants are in fact only nominal 
owners of their frozen assets. 
The district court’s order is AFFIRMED in part and VACATED 
AND REMANDED in part. In a separate order, we dismiss as moot 
Defendants’ appeals from the district court’s liquidation orders. The 
Relief Defendants’ motion for a stay is DENIED as moot, and all stays 
are VACATED. 

VINCENT LEVY (Gregory Dubinsky, Andrew C. Indorf, on 
the brief), Holwell Shuster & G oldberg LLP, New York, 
NY, for Defendant-Appellant Iftikar A. Ahmed. 

A
DAM G. UNIKOWSKY (Zachary C. Schauf, on the brief), 
Jenner & Block LLP, Washington, DC, for Defendants-
Appellants Shalini Ahmed, I.I. 1, a minor child, by and 
through his next friends Iftikar and Shalini Ahmed, his 
parents, I.I. 2, a minor child, by and through his next friends 
Iftikar and Shalini Ahmed, his parents, I.I. 3, a minor child, by 
and through his next friends Iftikar and Shalini Ahmed, his 
parents, I-Cubed Domains, LLC, Shalini Ahmed 2014 Grantor 
Retained Annuity Trust, DIYA Holdings, LLC, DIYA Real 
Holdings, LLC. 

S
TEPHEN G. YODER, Senior Litigation Counsel, for Dan M. 
Berkovitz, General Counsel, and John W. Avery, Deputy 
Solicitor, Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, DC, for Plaintiff-Appellee Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 

John L. Cesaroni , Christopher H. Blau , Stephen M. 
Kindseth, Zeisler & Zeisler, P.C., Bridgeport, CT, for 
Receiver-Appellee Jed Horwitt. 

PARK, Circuit Judge: 
Defendant Iftikar Ahmed defrauded his former employer and 
its investors of some $65 million over the span of a decade . His 
scheme ended in 2015 when he was indicted on unrelated insider -
trading charges and a subsequent internal investigation revealed the 
full breadth of his wrongdoing. The Securities and Exchange 
Commission (“SEC”) brought this civil enforcement action against 
Ahmed for various violations of the securities laws. 
To secure a potential disgorgement judgment, the SEC joined 
Ahmed’s family and related entities as Relief Defendants, and the 
district court (Arterton, J.) froze Ahmed’s and the Relief Defendants’ 
assets. Ahmed is currently a fugitive from justice, apparently 
residing in India, so the district court excluded him from discovery of 
the SEC’s investigative file. Due to a lack of excess frozen funds, t he 
district court also denied Ahmed access to funds to hire couns el. 
The district court granted the SEC’s motion for summary judgment 
and awarded disgorgement, supplemental enrichment (including 
prejudgment interest and actual gains), and civil penalties against 
Ahmed. The district court also adopted the SEC’s theory that 
Ahmed is the equitable owner of assets held in the name of the Relief 
Defendants as “nominees.” 
On appeal, Ahmed and the Relief Defendants challenge the 
district court’s judgment and calculation of disgorgement. The 
Relief Defendants also move to s tay the liquidation of frozen assets 
by the Receiver -Appellee pending resolution of these consolidated 
appeals. We affirm the district court’s (1) exclusion of Ahmed from 
discovery and denial of his access to frozen funds to hire counsel ; 
(2) calculation of Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation ; and 
(3) retroactive application of the 2021 amendments to the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 to Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation. We 
conclude, however, that the district court (4) failed to assess whether 
actual gains on the frozen assets were unduly remote from Ahmed’s 
fraud, and (5) should have applied an asset -by-asset approach to 
determine whether the Relief Defendants are in fact only nominal 
owners of their frozen assets. 
I. BACKGROUND 
A. Factual Background 
 In 2004, Ahmed joined Oak Management Corporation (“Oak”), 
a venture-capital firm. Ahmed was responsible for identifying and 
recommending “portfolio companies” in which Oak might invest and 
negotiating the terms of those investments. 
 Over the course of a decade, Ahmed stole over $65 million from 
Oak and ten portfolio companies, identified as Companies A to J in 
the pleadings, using the same basic scheme in each fraudulent 
transaction. First, Ahmed open ed bank accounts that he personally 
controlled ostensibly in the name of Oak and its portfolio companies. 
Second, he used those accounts to divert monies intended for Oak 
funds and portfolio companies into bank accounts that he and his wife 
controlled. To cover his tracks, Ahmed submitted fraudulent 
invoices and contracts to Oak, misrepresenting things like the size of 
investments, the currency exchange rates applicable to transactions, 
and the need to make payments to tax authorities or to reimburse 
legal and other fees. As o ne example of Ahmed’s fraud, in 2013, he 
negotiated an Oak entity’s investment in Company C that was 
conditioned on Company C redeeming shares of an entity that, 
unbeknownst to Oak, was owned by Ahmed. Ahmed pocketed 
more than $8 million from this particular scheme.1 
In April 2015, Ahmed was arrested on criminal charges in an 
insider-trading case. See United States v. Kanodia, No. 15-cr-10131 (D. 
Mass. Apr. 21, 2015), ECF 19. 2 Following his arrest, Oak conducted 

1 This transaction is described more fully in Section II.B.3.a, infra . 
2 Ahmed has been involved in at least four other cases relating to his 
conduct at Oak . First, Ahmed and a codefendant were indicted for the 
aforementioned insider trading, which remains pending against Ahmed 
given his fugitive status . See United States v. Kanodia , No. 15-cr-10131 (D. 
Mass.). The First Circuit affirmed the conviction of Ahmed’s codefendant, 
see United States v. Kanodia, 943 F.3d 499 (1st Cir. 2019), as well as the district 
court’s order of a default judgment of forfeiture on Ahmed’s appearance 
bond, see United States v. Ahmed , Nos. 21-1193, 21-1194, 2022 WL 18717740, 
at *1 (1st Cir. Nov. 1, 2022). Second, the SEC and Ahmed settled a civil 
enforcement action based on the same insider-trading conduct in 2019, and 
the district court entered a corresponding consent judgment. See Final J. 
as to Def. Iftikar Ahmed & Relief Def. Rakitfi Holdings, LLC, SEC v. Kanodia, 
No. 15-cv-13042 (D. Mass. July 8, 2019), ECF 198. Third, Ahmed was 
indicted in a separate fraud and criminal money -laundering prosecution, 
which remains pending. See Indictment, United States v. Ahmed, No. 16-cr-
10154 (D. Mass. June 1, 2016), ECF 34. Fourth, Oak’s former client NMR 
E-Tailing LLC sued Oak and Ahmed. See Decision After Trial on Damages 
at 3, NMR E-Tailing LLC v. Oak Inv. Partners, No. 656450/2017 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 
June 21, 2021) , ECF 406. Oak and NMR settled, but Ahmed proceeded to 
trial on damages ( with liability established by default) pro se and as a 
fugitive, resulting in a judgment against him for $7.5 million in 
compensatory damages, $500,000 in punitive damages, and prejudgment 
interest. See id. at 1-3, 11. On appeal, the trial court’s judgment was 

an internal investigation , which revealed that Ahmed had 
misappropriated approximately $67 million between 2005 and 2015. 
Oak terminated Ahmed for cause and denied Ahmed “carried 
interest”—effectively a bonus tied to Oak’s performance—based on a 
provision of its General Partnership Agreement. 
B. Procedural Background 
 1. Preliminary Injunction 
 On May 6, 2015, the SEC filed a civil complaint against Ahmed, 
alleging violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the 
Securities Act of 1933, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T he 
SEC also named the Relief Defendants3 as the recipients of ill-gotten 
gains and joint owners of accounts receiving such gains. To secure 
a potential judgment , the district court granted a temporary 
restraining order, freezing $55 million in assets. After t he SEC 
moved for a preliminary injunction to continue the TRO, Ahmed fled 
the United States and remains a fugitive. 
 After a two -day hearing, the district court granted a 
preliminary injunction, freezing approximately $65 million for 
disgorgement, $9.3 million for potential prejudgment interest, and 
$44 million for potential civil penalties ($118.3 million in total). We 
affirmed the order. See SEC v. I-Cubed Domains, LLC, 664 F. App’x 

affirmed. See Decision and Order, NMR E-Tailing LLC v. Oak Inv. Partners, 
No. 2021-1883 (N.Y. App. Div. 1st Dep’t May 25, 2023), ECF 53. 
3 The Relief Defendants are Shalini Ahmed (Ahmed’s wife), 
Ahmed’s three minor sons, and several companies held in the Ahmeds’ 
names or for their benefit: Iftikar Ali Ahmed Sole Proprietorship; I-Cubed 
Domains, LLC; Shalini Ahmed 2014 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust; DIYA 
Holdings, LLC; and DIYA Real Holdings, LLC. 
53, 55-56 (2d Cir. 2016). The district court later denied Ahmed’s 
request for $6 million from frozen funds to hire counsel. In addition, 
during discovery, Ahmed requested access to confidential 
information in the SEC’s possession, but the district court denied his 
request, citing the fugitive-disentitlement doctrine. 
 2. Summary Judgment 
 Although Ahmed’s fugitive status has remained unchanged, 
the legal landscape has not. Before proceeding to summary 
judgment, the district court held the case pending the Supreme 
Court’s decision in Kokesh v. SEC, 137 S. Ct. 1635 (2017). Kokesh held 
that “[d]isgorgement in the securities-enforcement context is a 
‘penalty’ within the meaning of [28 U.S.C.] § 2462, and so 
disgorgement actions must be commenced within five years of the 
date the claim accrues.” Id. at 1639. Kokesh did not address, 
however, “whether courts possess authority to order disgorgement in 
SEC enforcement proceedings.” Id. at 1642 n.3. After the decision, 
the parties proceeded to summary judgment , and Ahmed moved 
once more to modify the asset freeze. T he district court bifurcated 
the case into liability and remedy stages , and applying Kokesh’s five-
year bar, modified the asset freeze to freeze assets up to $89 million. 
At the liability stage, t he district court entered summary 
judgment for the SEC. At the remedies stage, the district court 
awarded a permanent injunction, $41,920,639 in disgorgement, $21 
million in civil penalties, $1,5 20,953 in prejudgment interest for the 
period before the asset freeze at the IRS underpayment rate , and 
“actual returns on the frozen assets” during the pendency of the asset 
freeze. Special App’x at SPA-98 to -109. The district court rejected 
Ahmed’s argument that Kokesh barred disgorgement, and it denied an 
offset for the “carried interest” that Ahmed forfeited to Oak upon his 
termination for “Disabling Conduct” within the meaning of his 
contract with Oak. 
The district court also adopted the “nominee” theory as to the 
assets held in the name of the Relief Defendants. Applying a six -
factor test, t he district court concluded that these frozen assets were 
equitably owned by Ahmed and that the Relief Defendants had failed 
to refute the SEC’s supporting evidence. Although the district court 
permitted liquidation of frozen assets to proceed under the 
supervision of Receiver -Appellee Jed Horwitt (the “Receiver”) , it 
stayed distribution pending appeal. In a ruling issued in 
conjunction with a n amen ded final judgment , the district court 
clarified that the judgment did “not extinguish the SEC’s remaining 
alternative theory of liability against the Relief Defendants” under 
SEC v. Cavanagh (Cavanagh I), 155 F.3d 129 (2d Cir. 1998). Special 
App’x at SPA-162. 
 3. Initial Appeal 
 After Ahmed filed a notice of appeal, we held the case in 
abeyance pending the Supreme Court ’s decision in Liu v. SEC , 140 
S. Ct. 1936 (2020). 4 Although the Exchange Act did not explicitly 
authorize a “disgorgement” remedy, Liu held that disgorgement is a 
form of “equitable relief” authorized under 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(5)—
answering the question left open by Kokesh. Liu , 140 S. Ct. at 1940. 

4 Ahmed also moved for the release of funds to pay for counsel. A 
motions panel of this Court construed Ahmed’s motion as seeking 
mandamus relief directing the district court to rule on a similar motion then 
before it and denied Ahmed’s motion as moot after the district court denied 
the motion. 
 Shortly after Liu, Congress enacted the William M. (Mac) 
Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 
(“NDAA”), Pub. L. No. 116-283, § 6501(a)-(b), 134 Stat. 3388, 4625-26 
(codified at 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3), (7)-(8)). The NDAA amended the 
Exchange Act in three ways relevant here . First, the NDAA 
explicitly authorized the SEC to pursue disgorgement in civil actions. 
See NDAA § 6501(a), 134 Stat. at 4625-26 (codified at 15 U.S.C. 
§ 78u(d)(7)). Second, the NDAA extended the statute of limitations 
for “a claim for disgorgement” to “not later than 10 years after the 
latest date of the violation” for conduct under certain securities laws. 
Id. at 4626 (codified at 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(8)). Finally, the NDAA 
provided that its amendments “shall apply with respect to any action 
or proceeding that is pending on, or commenced on or after, the date 
of enactment of this Act.” Id. 
The SEC moved to remand for recalculation of Ahmed’s 
disgorgement obligation under the NDAA. Ahmed opposed, 
arguing that (1) this Court lacked jurisdiction to remand because the 
SEC failed to cross -appeal; (2) application of the NDAA would 
reopen a final judgment; (3) the NDAA lack s a clear retroactivity 
command, and retroactive application would violate the Ex Post 
Facto Clause; and (4) the NDAA does not apply to disgorgement 
under 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(5). A motion s panel granted the SEC’s 
motion and remanded “for a determination of Appellant’s 
disgorgement obligation consistent with § 6501 of the [NDAA], and, 
if appropriate, entry of an amended judgment.” SEC v. Ahmed, Nos. 
18-2903, 18-2932, 19-102, 19-103, 19-355, 19-2974, 19-3375, 19-3610, 19-
3721, 2021 WL 1171712, at *1 (2d Cir. Mar. 11, 2021). 
4. Remand and Liquidation 
On remand, the district court found that the NDAA’s ten -year 
statute of limitations applied and increased the disgorgement amount 
from $41,920,639 to $64,171,646.14, with $9,755,798.34 in prejudgment 
interest. T he district court also rejected the same arguments Ahmed 
raised before the motions panel. Ahmed and the Relief Defendants 
appealed again, giving rise to this action. 
The district court also approved the Receiver’s proposed 
liquidation plan , which was divided into two phases (“First 
Liquidation Order”). Phase 1 would liquidat e non -unique assets, 
and phase 2 would liquidate unique assets as needed to satisfy the 
judgment. The district court denied the Relief Defendants ’ motion 
for a stay pending appeal. Defendants then appealed the First 
Liquidation Order, which this Court held in abeyance pending 
resolution of the merits of this appeal. 
Phase 1 ended with $118 million in the r eceivership estate, 
which was insufficient to secure the total judgment, then estimated to 
be in excess of $125 million. The district court approved most of the 
Receiver’s phase 2 plan and rejected the Relief Defendants’ motion to 
stay liquidation of the unique assets pending appeal (“Second 
Liquidation Order”). Defendants appealed the Second Liquidatio n 
Order, with the Relief Defendants moving to stay liquidation of the 
unique assets. This Court held the appeal s of the Second 
Liquidation Order in abeyance pending our decision in these appeals 
from the redetermined amended final judgment . While the Relief 
Defendants’ stay motion was pending, the Receiver indicated that he 
would begin phase 2 by liquidating a MetLife life-insurance policy on 
December 28, 2022, and listing the Ahmed s’ two Park Avenue 
apartments for sale on May 8, 2023. We granted temp orary 
administrative stays pending our decision on the Relief Defendants’ 
motion for a stay of liquidation. 
II. DISCUSSION 
Ahmed first argues that summary judgment was improper 
because he was excluded from discovery and denied access to funds 
to hire coun sel. Ahmed also argues that the district court 
miscalculated disgorgement by incorrectly approximating net profits 
and erroneously applying the NDAA. The Relief Defendants raise 
two additional arguments: first, the district court improperly 
calculated prejudgment interest and actual gains, and second, it 
misapplied the “nominee” doctrine. Although we are not 
persuaded by Ahmed’s arguments, we find merit in some of the Relief 
Defendants’ arguments. 
A. Summary-Judgment Challenges 
Ahmed challenges the district court’s summary -judgment 
order, arguing that the district court erred by limiting his access to 
discovery and by denying his request to unfreeze assets to hire 
counsel. Neither argument is persuasive. 
1. Discovery Limitations 
The district court did not abuse its discretion by denying 
Ahmed extraterritorial access to confidential records in the SEC’s 
possession. Drawing on the fugitive -disentitlement doctrine, the 
district court reasoned that Ahmed had “removed himself from the 
jurisdiction of the [district court],” so the district court had “no ability 
to enforce” an “appropriate protective order limiting his use of the 
documents produced.” Endorsement Order Denying Def.’s Mot. for 
Full Access to the SEC’s Investigative File at 3, SEC v. Ahmed, No. 15-
cv-675 (D. Conn. Aug. 22, 2016), ECF 286. The district court thus 
denied Ahmed access to SEC discovery materials. Ahmed argues 
that this denied him “any practical means of defending himself” in 
violation of “the adversarial process set forth in the Federal Rules of 
[Civil] Procedure” and t he Due Process Clause. Appellant’s Br. at 
53, 60-61. We disagree . 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c)(1) permits a district court 
to “issue an order to protect a party or person from annoyance, 
embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden o r expense.” See 
Degen v. United States, 517 U.S. 820, 826 (1996) (explaining that district 
courts have broad authority “to manage discovery in a civil suit, 
including the power to enter protective orders limiting discovery as 
the interests of justice require”); accord Empire Blue Cross & Blue Shield 
v. Finkelstein, 111 F.3d 278, 281 (2d Cir. 1997). We review discovery 
orders for abuse of discretion. See Lederman v. N.Y.C. Dep’t of Parks 
& Recreation, 731 F.3d 199, 202 (2d Cir. 2013); United States v. 
Technodyne LLC, 753 F.3d 368, 378 (2d Cir. 2014). 
The district court ’s discovery restrictions here were a 
reasonable exercise of its broad power to enforce protective orders. 
“Courts invested with the judicial power of the United States have 
certain inherent authority to protect their proceedings and judgments 
in the course of discharging their traditional responsibilities.” 
Degen, 517 U.S. at 823. A district court retains “authority to manage 
discovery,” including “limit[ing] discovery in the interests of justice.” 
Finkelstein, 111 F.3d at 281; see also Degen, 517 U.S. at 827 (“A federal 
court has at its disposal an array of means to enforce its orders.”). 
The discovery material at issue was subject to a protective order 
under Rule 26 based on the confidential and se nsitive nature of the 
documents, and the district court determined that the court could not 
enforce such an order because Ahmed had removed himself from the 
court’s jurisdiction . The district court’s limitation of Ahmed’s 
extraterritorial access to the pr otected materials thus constituted a 
reasonable exercise of the court’s “inherent authority to protect” its 
own discovery orders to limit Ahmed’s access to civil discovery in 
light of his status as a fugitive . Degen , 517 U.S. at 823. Ahmed ’s 
proposed alternatives, like monetary sanctions, would not ensure the 
adequate protection of confidential information in this case. 
We affirm the discovery limitations as a reasonable means of 
enforcing a protective order , so we do not decide whether the 
fugitive-disentitlement doctrine might apply in this case consistent 
with due process. 5 See Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC v. Sappington , 884 
F.3d 392, 396 n.2 (2d Cir. 2018) (“We are free to affirm on any ground 

5 Under the fugitive -disentitlement doctrine, “a person who is a 
fugitive from justice may not use the resources of the civil legal system 
while disregarding its lawful orders in a related criminal action.” United 
States v. Eng , 951 F.2d 461, 464 (2d Cir. 1991) , abrogated on other grounds by 
Degen, 517 U.S. 820. A blunt instrument, the fugitive -disentitlement 
doctrine “forbid[s] all participation by the absent claimant.” Degen, 517 
U.S. at 826 (emphasis add ed). Although we do not decide whether the 
doctrine applies here, we note that the purposes underlying it are served 
by the district court’s order. Disentitlement is rooted in a court’s ability to 
enforce a “judgment on review,” “discourage[] the felony of escape,” 
“encourage[] voluntary surrenders,” and “promote[] the efficient, dignified 
operation of the courts.” Id. at 824 ( cleaned up ). Ahmed faces several 
criminal charges, see supra note 2, and granting him full access to discovery 
could further discourage his voluntary return to the United States and grant 
him an unfair advantage in those proceedings to the extent they are based 
on the same or related underlying conduct. 
that finds support in the record, even if it was not the ground upon 
which the trial court relied.” (cleaned up)). 
2. Denial of Funds to Hire Counsel 
The district court did not abuse its discretion by declining to 
unfreeze assets for Ahmed to hire counsel. Ahmed argues that the 
district court “over -froze [his] liquid assets, and thus improperly 
deprived him of the ability to use his money to hire counsel.” 
Appellant’s Br. at 61. For the reasons stated infra, the district court 
properly calculated disgorgement, so it did not abuse its discretion by 
concluding that there were no frozen funds available for Ahmed to 
hire counsel.6 It is well -settled that a defendant has no right to use 
tainted assets for his legal defense. See Caplin & Drysdale, Chartered 
v. United States, 491 U.S. 617, 626 (1989) (“A defendant has no Sixth 
Amendment right to spend another person’s money for services 
rendered by an attorney.”). Moreover, Ahmed has no constitutional 
right to counsel in this civil enforcement action. See United States v. 
Coven, 662 F.2d 162, 176 (2d Cir. 1981). In any event, the Relief 
Defendants have hired able counsel who have also represented 
Ahmed’s interests throughout these proceedings. 

6 Our decision to vacate and remand the district court’s award of 
“actual gains” has no bearing on the denial of Ahmed’s motion to unfreeze 
funds for two reasons. First, the “actual gains” calculation is part of the 
post-judgment liquidation process, whereas Ahmed’s motio n to unfreeze 
funds relates to the scope of the preliminary injunction. Second, “actual 
gains” are calculated based on the growth of disgorged assets regardless of 
the size of the judgment. So “actual gains” and disgorgement are 
independent for present purposes. 
B. Disgorgement 
 The district court did not abuse its discretion in calculating 
disgorgement. First, the district court accurately estimated net 
profits and reasonably declined to offset Ahmed’s forfeited “carried 
interest.” Second, the district court properly gave retroactive effect 
to the NDAA. 
1. Legal Standard 
The Exchange Act, as amended, states that “[i]n any action or 
proceeding brought by the Commission under any provision of the 
securities laws, the Commission may seek, and any Federal court may 
order, disgorgement.” 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(7). “Disgo rgement 
serves to remedy securities law violations by depriving violators of 
the fruits of their illegal conduct.” SEC v. Contorinis, 743 F.3d 296, 
301 (2d Cir. 2014). We review disgorgement orders for abuse of 
discretion. SEC v. Warde, 151 F.3d 42, 49 (2d Cir. 1998). “We review 
de novo questions of a statute ’s interpretation and constitutionality. ” 
United States v. al Kassar, 660 F.3d 108, 129 (2d Cir. 2011). 
2. Equitable Disgorgement After the NDAA 
As a preliminary matter, the parties assume, and we agree, that 
Liu’s equitable limitations on disgorgement survive the NDAA. In 
Liu, the Supreme Court held that although the Exchange Act did not 
(at the time) explicitly authorize “disgorgement,” “equitable relief” 
under § 78u(d)(5) includes disgorgement. 140 S. Ct. at 1940. The 
Court thus held that any disgorgement award must be consistent with 
traditional principles of equity. See id. at 1947. Shortly a fter Liu, 
Congress enacted the NDAA, which specifically added 
“disgorgement” as a remedy under § 78u(d)(7) while leaving 
untouched “equitable relief” available via § 78u(d)(5). We read 
“disgorgement” in § 78u(d)(7) to refer to equitable disgorgement as 
recognized in Liu.7 
First, § 78u(d)(7) authorizes “disgorgement ,” which we have 
long understood to refer to “the chancellor’s discretion to prevent 
unjust enrichment” at equity. SEC v. Commonwealth Chem. Sec., Inc., 
574 F.2d 90, 95 (2d Cir. 1978); see 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)(A)(ii) 
(explaining that the SEC may seek and courts have jurisdiction to 
“require disgorgement . . . of any unjust enrichment by the person 
who received such unjust enrichment” as a result of violating the 
Exchange Act ). This terminology is “consistent with a rem edy 
rooted in equity, given that ‘unjust enrichment’ is another term of 
art—the basis for all restitution, which is often equitable.” Hallam, 
42 F.4th at 340. Indeed, as the Supreme Court has observed, 
“‘statutory reference[s]’ to a remedy grounded in equity ‘must, absent 
other indication, be deemed to contain the limitations upon its 
availability that equity typically imposes.’” Liu, 140 S. Ct. at 1947 
(alteration in original) (quoting Great-W. Life & Annuity Ins. Co. v. 
Knudson, 534 U.S. 204, 211 n.1 (2002)); see also Astoria Fed. Sav. & Loan 
Ass’n v. Solimino, 501 U.S. 104, 108 (1991) (“Congress is understood to 
legislate against a background of common -law adjudicatory 
principles.”). The NDAA’s text evinces no intent to contradict Liu or 
to strip disgorgement of “limit[s] established by longstanding 
principles of equity” in favor of an unbounded “legal” form of 

 7 The Fifth Circuit recently held that § 78u(d)(7) “authorize[s] legal 
‘disgorgement’ apart from the equitable ‘disgorgement’ permitted by Liu” 
and questioned “whether equitable disgorgement . . . survived the 2021 
Exchange Act amendments.” SEC v. Hallam, 42 F.4th 316, 341, 343 (5th Cir. 
2022). We decline to follow the Fifth Circuit’s approach . 
disgorgement. Liu , 140 S. Ct. at 1947. We thus apply “the strong 
presumption that repeals by implication are disfavored and that 
Congress will specifically address preexisting law when it wishes to 
suspend its normal operations in a later statute.” SEC v. Alpine Sec. 
Corp., 982 F.3d 68, 78 (2d Cir. 2020) (brackets omitted) (quoting Epic 
Sys. Corp. v. Lewis, 138 S. Ct. 1612, 1624 (2018)). 
Second, reading “disgorgement” under § 78u(d)(7) as equitable 
disgorgement is consistent with t he statutory history. Before the 
NDAA, “Congress did not define what falls under the umbrella of 
‘equitable relief,’” so “courts . . . had to consider which remedies the 
SEC may impose as part of its § 78u(d)(5) powers.” Liu, 140 S. Ct. at 
1940. This created some uncertainty about whether, for example, the 
Exchange Act authorized disgorgement and the applicable statute of 
limitations. See, e.g., Kokesh, 581 U.S. at 461-62 & n.3. T he NDAA 
then clarified some aspects of this uncertainty. The express addition 
of “disgorgement” as a remedy specified under § 78u(d)(7) is thus 
best read , not as superfluity, but as a “belt and suspenders” 
clarification that equitable disgorgement is available under the 
Exchange Act. Moreover, the authorization of a ten -year statute of 
limitations under § 78u(d)(8)(A)(ii) is best understood as expressly 
overruling Kokesh’s five -year statute of limitations as to certain 
securities violations . So we conclude that disgorgement under 
§ 78u(d)(7) must comport with traditional equitable limitations as 
recognized in Liu. 
3. Disgorgement Calculation 
 The district court properly calculated Ahmed’s disgorgement 
obligation. Ahmed argues that the district court (1) miscalculated 
“net profits” from two fraudulent transactions involving Company C 
(“C1” and “C2”) and (2) failed to account for the “carried interest” 
forfeited to Oak upon his termination for “Disabling Conduct .” He 
further argues that any reduction in the district court’s disgorgement 
award should also reduce the district court’s civil penalty. We 
conclude that both arguments are meritless, so we decline to disturb 
the district court’s rulings as to either disgorgement or civil penalties. 
a. Net Profits Calculation 
 The district court did not abuse its discretion in its calculation 
of net profits. Disgorgement must “not exceed a wrongdoer’s net 
profits and is awarded for victims,” Liu, 140 S. Ct. at 1940, “that is, the 
gain made upon any business or investment, when both the receipts 
and payments are taken into account ,” id. at 1945 (cleaned up). We 
have held that the “ amount of disgorgement ordered need only be a 
reasonable approximation of profits causally con nected to the 
violation.” SEC v. Fowler, 6 F.4th 255, 267 (2d Cir. 2021) (cleaned up). 
Here, t he district court reasonably approximated net profits 
based on the difference between the sale and purchase prices 
involved in the tainted Company C transactions. As to C1, 
Ahmed—in his capacity as a member of BVI Company’s board of 
directors—“personally negotiated” a $2 million investment in 
Company C without BVI Company’s knowledge . When the 
unapproved investment w as uncovered, Ahmed “purposefully lied 
to his fellow BVI Company directors ” that the purchase was a 
“mistake.” Special App’x at SPA-35. Ahmed then bought the 
shares himself, ostensibly to correct for the “mistake,” but left them 
in the BVI Company’s name . Ahmed later negotiated another 
investment by an Oak entity in Company C that was conditioned on 
Company C paying nearly $11 million to redeem BVI Company’s 
shares—which, unbeknownst to the Oak entity, were owned by 
Ahmed. Ahmed profited more than $8 million on the sale. 
As to C2, Ahmed had invested in Company C via Relief 
Defendant I-Cubed Domains, LLC, of which Ahmed was founder and 
sole member, without disclosure to Oak. Ahmed then pitched Oak 
on a $7.5 million stock -purchase agreement for I -Cubed’s Company 
C shares without disclosing his personal stake, even going so far as to 
forge the signature of I -Cubed’s former manager on the transaction 
paperwork to conceal his personal interest. Ahmed’s fraud may not 
have driven Company C’s entire growth, but it permitted him to 
realize profits driven by that growth. So it was a reasonable 
approximation of net profits to take the difference between “gross 
sales revenues from the sale of Company C shares” and Ahmed’s 
“initial cost of purchasing the Company C shares.” Id. at SPA -103; 
see Fowler, 6 F.4th at 267. 
Ahmed’s arguments to the contrary are unavailing. Ahmed 
argues that, in calculating net profits, the district court should have 
credited him an offset based on C1 and C2 because there was no 
evidence that Oak paid inflated prices as opposed to fair market 
value. Specifically, as to C1, Ahmed argues that any difference 
between the purchase and sale prices of Company C stock was based 
on “an increase in the market price of the shares,” not A hmed’s 
“unlawful activity.” Appellant’s Br. at 41. As to C2, Ahmed argues 
that the district court failed to account for the fact that the market 
value of Company C shares was likely well above the price Oak 
actually paid. 
These arguments fail. Ahmed’s misconduct with respect to 
these transactions was not in misrepresenting the purchase prices but 
in failing to disclose his conflicts of interest, which violated the 
Advisers Act. See 15 U.S.C. § 80b-6(3). The C1 and C2 transactions 
were thus entirely tainted, and Ahmed’s $14.4 million in profits from 
the transactions constituted his “net profits from wrongdoing” under 
Liu. See Contorinis, 743 F.3d at 301 (“Because disgorgement’s 
underlying purpose is to make lawbreaking unprofitable for the law-
breaker, it satisfies its design when the lawbreaker returns the fruits 
of his misdeeds, regardless of any other ends it may or may not 
accomplish.”). 
Moreover, Ahmed bear s the risk of uncertainty affecting the 
size of disgorgement . “A wrongdoer’s unl awful action may create 
illicit benefits for the wrongdoer that are indirect or 
intangible. . . . [T]o require precise articulation of such rewards in 
calculating disgorgement amounts would allow the wrongdoer to 
benefit from such uncertainty.” Id. at 306; see also Fowler, 6 F.4 th at 
267 (“If the disgorgement amount is generally reasonable, any risk of 
uncertainty about the amount falls on the wrongdoer whose illegal 
conduct created that uncertainty.” (cleaned up)). The fact that Oak , 
a victim of Ahmed’s fraud, might have gotten a “bargain” on the 
share purchase should not redound to the fraudster’s benefit . We 
thus find no abuse of discretion in the disgorgement calculation. 
b. Carried-Interest Offset 
Ahmed next argues that the district court should have offset the 
disgorgement award by the “carried interest” he forfeited to Oak 
because this forfeiture was “on account of the [unlawful] conduct at 
issue in this case.” Appellant’s Br. at 50. We disagree. 
Ahmed’s General Partnership Agreement with Oak stated that 
“any Member who is removed by reason of having engaged in 
Disabling Conduct shall forfeit for no consideration such Member’s 
entire membership interest, Percentage Interest and Capital Account 
and shall not become, or shall cease to b e, as applicable, a Class B 
member.” Special App’x at SPA-120. Part of Ahmed’s 
“membership interest” was a “carried interest” bonus based on “the 
performance of the Oak Funds.” Id. at SPA-120 n.24. So Ahmed’s 
forfeited “carried interest” is not an ill-gotten gain from his fraud but 
rather was his expectancy to a portion of Oak’s profits conferred by the 
General Partnership Agreement. But disgorgement does not protect 
the wrongdoer’s expectancy interests; it attempts to “restor [e] the 
status quo” by “tak[ing] money out of the wrongdoer’s hands.” Liu, 
140 S. Ct. at 1943 (cleaned up). Equity does not require an offset for 
the carried interest , which was contingent on Ahmed’s relationship 
with Oak and was not derived directly from his fraud. 
Ahmed’s argument to the contrary is unpersuasive. He 
contends that the Court should follow the approach of SEC v. Penn, in 
which a district court ordered an evidentiary hearing to determine 
“the value of [the defendant’s] forfeited interest in the fund” o f his 
former employer to offset his disgorgement obligation . No. 14 -cv-
581, 2017 WL 5515855, at *3-4 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 22, 2017). But in that 
case, the “SEC d[id] not dispute that Penn’s carried interest in the 
Fund . . . could offset his disgorgement oblig ation,” in accordance 
with the terms of Penn’s plea agreement. Id. at *4. Penn did not 
conclude that forfeited carried interest generally should offset a 
disgorgement obligation.

8 Ahmed also requests that the district court on remand offset his 
disgorgement obligation by the amount of civil judgments obtained against 

We thus affirm the district court’s calculation of Ahmed’s 
disgorgement obligation and decline to revisit its calculation of civil 
penalties. 
 4. Application of the NDAA 
 The district court did not err by applying the NDAA’s 
expanded statute of limitations to Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation. 
Ahmed argues that the district court’s application of the NDAA was 
incorrect for four reasons: (1) the SEC failed to cross -appeal; (2) the 
district court reopened a final judgment; (3) the NDAA does not apply 
retroactively; and (4) application of the NDAA violates the Ex Post 
Facto Clause. Although the SEC argues that Ahmed’s first three 
arguments are barred by the law -of-the-case doctrine, we do not 
decide whether that doctrine applies because all four of Ahmed’s 
arguments are without merit. 
a. Cross-Appeal Rule 
The SEC’s failure to cross-appeal did not prevent the district 
court from recalculating disgorgement under the NDAA. Under the 
cross-appeal rule, “an app ellate court may not alter a judgment to 
benefit a nonappealing party.” Greenlaw v. United States, 554 U.S. 
237, 244 (2008). Ahmed argues that the cross-appeal rule is 
jurisdictional, so the SEC’s failure to cross-appeal from the amended 
final judgment deprived the district court of jurisdiction to enlarge 
disgorgement under the NDAA. This argument fails. 

him by his victims. This could be appropriate if Ahmed were to prove that 
he paid restitution. See, e.g., SEC v. Palmisano, 135 F.3d 860, 863-64 (2d Cir. 
1998). 
First, the cross-appeal rule did not deprive the district court of 
jurisdiction to recalculate disgorgement . It is well -settled that “the 
requirement of a cross-appeal is a rule of practice which is not 
jurisdictional and in appropriate circumstances may be disregarded.” 
Finkielstain v. Seidel, 857 F.2d 893, 895 (2d Cir. 1988); accord Texport Oil 
Co. v. M/V Amolyntos, 11 F .3d 361, 366 (2d Cir. 1993) (explaining that 
“there has been some conflict in our Court as to whether the late filing 
of a notice of cross-appeal is a matter of practice or is a jurisdictional 
bar” and “adher[ing]” to Finkielstain); see also Carlson v. Principal Fin. 
Grp., 320 F.3d 301, 309 (2d Cir. 2003) (relying on Finkielstain and 
Texport and treating the cross-appeal rule as non -jurisdictional); 
Clubside, Inc. v. Valentin, 468 F.3d 144, 162 (2d Cir. 2006) (same).
Second, the cross-appeal rule is ina pplicable to Ahmed’s case 
because the SEC did not seek to “enlarge its rights under the 
judgment by enlarging the . . . scope of equitable relief,” Int’l Ore & 
Fertilizer Corp. v. SGS Control Servs., Inc., 38 F.3d 1279, 1286 (2d Cir. 
1994)—i.e., the outcome that the cross-appeal rule forbids—but rather 
sought to remand the case to present its NDAA arguments to the 
district court in the first instance. Critically, the SEC could not have 
presented these arguments in a timely cross-appeal because the 
NDAA was enacted after the deadline to file a cross -appeal had 
passed. It would make little sense if the cross-appeal rule prevented 
nonappealing parties from receiving the benefit of intervening 
retroactive statutes. As this Court explained in Litton Systems, Inc. v. 

9 Swatch Grou p Management Services Ltd. v. Bloomberg L.P., 756 F.3d 
73 (2d Cir. 2014) , is not to the contrary. There, we characterized as 
“jurisdictional” only Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 3(c)(1)(B)’s 
requirement that a notice of cross-appeal identify the challenged district -
court order. Id. at 93. 
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 746 F.2d 168 (2d Cir. 1984), albeit 
under somewhat different circumstances, 
No party to an appeal should be held to a standard that 
permits consideration of an intervening statute only 
when issues affected by the statute are already pending 
on appeal. Such a standard would require either 
anticipation of statutes not yet enacted or the assertion of 
frivolous grounds in appeals and cross -appeals in the 
hope that a new statute might affect their resoluti on 
favorably. 
Id. at 171. We decline to apply the cross-appeal rule in Ahmed’s case 
because it would frustrate congressional intent and judicial economy. 
b. Reopening a Final Judgment 
Nor would application of the NDAA reopen a final judgment. 
“When a new law makes clear that it is retroactive, an appellate court 
must apply that law in reviewing judgments still on appeal that were 
rendered before the law was enacted, and must alter the outcome 
accordingly.” Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, Inc., 514 U.S. 211, 226 (1995). 
The Supreme Court has taken care to distinguish “judgments from 
which all appeals have been forgone or completed” and “judgments 
that remain on appeal.” Id. at 227. 
Here, t he district court’s grant of summary judgment is not 
“final” within the meaning of Plaut because appeals are ongoing. See 
Miller v. French, 530 U.S. 327, 347 (2000) (“[W]hen Congress changes 
the law underlying a judgment awarding . . . relief, that relief is no 
longer enforceable to the extent it is inconsistent with the new law. 
Although the remedial injunction . . . is a final judgment for purposes 
of appeal, it is not the last word of the judicial department . . . [because 
it] is subject to the continuing supervisory jurisdicti on of the court , 
and therefore may be altered according to subsequent changes in the 
law.” (emphasis added) (cleaned up )). Application of the NDAA 
thus does not reopen a final judgment. 
c. Retroactivity of the NDAA 
The district court also did not err by giving retroactive effect to 
the NDAA’s disgorgement amendments. In Landgraf v. USI Film 
Products, 511 U.S. 244 (1994), the Supreme Court explained that 
“[s]ince the early days of this Court, we have declined to give 
retroactive effect to statutes burdening private rights unless Congress 
had made clear its intent .” Id. at 270. To overcome this 
presumption against retroactivity, a “court must ask whether the new 
provision attaches new legal consequences to events completed 
before its enactment,” thereby suggesting “clear congressional intent 
authorizing retroactivity.” Id. at 269-70, 272. 
The NDAA’s disgorgement amendments explicitly apply to 
cases pending at the time of enactment. Section 6501(b) provides 
that the NDAA’s disgorgement amen dments “shall apply with 
respect to any action or proceeding that is pending on, or commenced 
on or after, the date of enactment of this Act.” Pub. L. No. 116-283, 
§ 6501(b), 134 Stat. 3388, 4626 (2021). The Supreme Court has, in 
dicta, interpreted nearly identical language as a retroactivity 
command. See, e.g., Landgraf, 511 U.S. at 255 & n.8, 256 (construing 
the phrase “shall apply to all proceedings pending on or commenced 
after the date of enactment of this Act” as an “explicit retroactivity 
command”); Martin v. Hadix, 527 U.S. 343, 354-55 (1999) (same). If 
Congress enacts a provision containing a phrase to which the 
Supreme Court has previously ascribed a particular meaning, we will 
presumptively confer that meaning to the provision. See generally 
Siebert v. Conservative Party of N.Y. State, 724 F.2d 334, 337 (2d Cir. 
1983) (recounting the “canon of statutory construction that Congress 
is presumed to be aware of the ju dicial background against which it 
legislates”). We thus conclude that the NDAA’s disgorgement 
amendments apply retroactively to Ahmed’s case. 
We are not persuaded by Ahmed’s contrary arguments. First, 
we reject Ahmed’s argument that the SEC may not receive the benefit 
of the ten-year statute of limitations because the SEC initially brought 
this enforcement action under 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(5), not § 78u(d)(7). 
Section 78u(d)(7) did not exist at the time the SEC filed suit, so it 
would have been impossible to invoke that provision. In any event, 
the SEC brought the action “pursuant to the authority conferred upon 
it by . . . 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)” generally, Second Am. Compl. at 4, SEC 
v. Ahmed, No. 15-cv-675 (D. Conn. Apr. 1, 2016), ECF 208, and, as the 
district court explained, it “relied on the common law injunctive,” i.e., 
equitable, “power of the district court [],” Special App’x at SPA -245. 
Similarly, the district court itself “did not rely solely on [15 U.S.C. 
§ 78u(d)(5)] to authorize disgorgement in its initial ruling” and 
instead exercised its inherent equitable power to do so. Id. 
Second, Ahmed’s argument that the NDAA eviscerated his 
“vested and adjudicated limitation defense” is meritless. Appellant’s 
Br. at 33 (emphasis in original). The Supreme Court imposed a five-
year statute of limitations on disgorgement in Kokesh, 137 S. Ct. 1635, 
which was decided over two years after the SEC brought this action. 
So Ahmed could not have had a reliance interest in Kokesh’s statute of 
limitations before the SEC brought this action. We thus interpret the 
NDAA to contain an effective retroactivity command applicable to 
Ahmed’s case. 
d. Ex Post Facto Clause 
Finally, t he district court’s a pplication of the NDAA to 
Ahmed’s disgorgement award did not violate the Ex Post Facto 
Clause. Ahmed argues that disgorgement under the NDAA is 
punitive, so retroactive application to his case would run afoul of the 
Ex Post Facto Clause’s guarantee. We are not persuaded. 
The Constitution provides, “No . . . ex post facto Law shall be 
passed.” U.S. Const. art. I, § 9, cl. 3. “To violate the Ex Post Facto 
Clause . . . a law must be retrospective—that is, it must apply to 
events occurring before its enactment—and it must disadvantage the 
offender affected by it, by altering the definition of criminal conduct 
or increasing the punishment for the crime.” Abed v. Armstrong, 209 
F.3d 63, 66 (2d Cir. 2000) (cleaned up). A two -step framework 
governs Ex Post Facto Clause challenges. At step one, “[w]e must 
ascertain whether the legislature meant the statute to establish ‘civil’ 
proceedings.” Smith v. Doe, 538 U.S. 84, 92 (2003) (cleaned up). If 
Congress’s intention “was to impose punishment, that ends the 
inquiry.” Id. “If, however, the intention was to enact a regulatory 
scheme that is civil and nonpunitive, ” we must proceed to step two 
and “further examine whether the statutory scheme is ‘ so punitive 
either in purpose or effect as to negate . . . [that ] intention’ to deem it 
civil.” Id. (quoting Kansas v. Hendricks, 521 U.S. 346, 361 (1997)). 
But we typically “defer to the legislature’s stated intent,” and “only 
the clearest proof will suffice to override legislative intent and 
transform what has been denominated a civil remedy into a criminal 
penalty.” Id. (cleaned up). That is not this case. 
First, in enacting 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(7), Congress clearly 
intended to provide a civil remedy. To determine whether a 
statutory scheme is civil or criminal, we “ask whether the legislature, 
in establishing the penalizing mechanism, indicated either expressly 
or impliedly a preference for one label or the other.” Hudson v. 
United States, 522 U.S. 93, 99 (1997) (cleaned up ). D isgorgement 
under § 78u(d) is designated as providing “[c]ivil money penalties,” 
and we have previously characterized “disgorgement” as a civil 
remedy. 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3); see Contorinis, 743 F.3d at 306 
(“Disgorgement . . . is a civil remedy . . . preventing unjust 
enrichment.”). 
Second, Ahmed does not provide “the clearest proof” that 
disgorgement under § 78u(d)(7) is “so punitive either in purpose or 
effect” as to “transform what has been denominated a civil remedy 
into a criminal penalty.” Smith, 538 U.S. at 92 (cleaned up). Ahmed 
argues that disgorgement is in practice a criminal penalty because its 
“‘primary purpose . . . is to deter violations of the securities laws,’ 
which is ‘inherently punitive’” according to Kokesh. Appellant’s Br. 
at 36 (quoting Kokesh, 137 S. Ct. at 1643). Ahmed also contends the 
NDAA is punitive because it has a longer limitations period for 
violations committed with scienter than for those without. 
But Ahmed misreads Kokesh. In Liu, the Supreme Court 
recognized that Kokesh “expressly declined to pass on the question” 
of whether “disgorgement is necessarily a penalty, and thus not the 
kind of relief available at equity.” Liu, 140 S. Ct. at 1946 (emphasis 
added). T he disgorgement award in Kokesh was deemed a “penalty” 
because it “exceed[ed] the bounds of traditional equitable principles” 
in awarding disgorgement “as a consequence of violating public 
laws” and to deter the wrongdoer, not to compensate victims. Id. at 
1941, 1946. But Kokesh “ha[d] no bearing on the SEC’s ability to 
conform future requests for a defendant’s profits to the limits outlined 
in common- law cases awarding a wrongdoer’s net gains.” Id. at 
1946. In other words, Liu approved disgorgement as l ong as the 
award conforms to traditional equitable limitations —i.e., “restoring 
the status quo and ordering the return of that which rightfully 
belongs to the purchaser or tenant.” Tull v. United States, 481 U.S. 
412, 424 (1987) (quoting Porter v. Warner Holding Co., 328 U.S. 395, 402 
(1946)). 
Moreover, the long er limitations period for violations 
committed with scienter does not render disgorgement punitive. 
The more plausible inference is a nonpunitive one—i.e., scienter is an 
element of fraud, which may be harder to detect and investigate 
because fraud is usually committed with deception. Cf. Merck & Co., 
Inc. v. Reynolds, 559 U.S. 633, 644 (2010) (“[I]n the case of fraud, . . . a 
defendant’s deceptive conduct m ay prevent a plaintiff from even 
knowing that he or she has been defrauded.”). We thus hold that the 
district court’s application of the NDAA did not violate the Ex Post 
Facto Clause.
* * * 
 In sum, we find no abuse of discretion in the district court’s 
calculation of disgorgement or error in its application of the NDAA. 

10 Our decision to vacate and remand the actual-gains award, see 
infra Section II.C, does not bear on our Ex Post Facto Clause analysis. The 
district court did not increase the actual -gains award following the NDAA 
nor do Defendants raise a related Ex Post Facto Clause challenge . 
C. Calculation of Interest and Actual Gains 
 We affirm the district court’s award of prejudgment interest but 
vacate and remand the award of “actual gains ” because it is broader 
than equity permits.11 
1. Legal Standard 
The district court’s prejudgment -interest and actual -gains 
awards were incident to disgorgement, so we consider whether they 
“fall[] into those categories of relief that were typically available in 
equity.” Liu, 140 S. Ct. at 1942 (cleaned up ). One such category of 
relief is “s upplemental enrichment ,” which encompasses the 
opportunity cost or time value of money lost by victim s, including 
“interest, rent, and other measures of use value, proceeds, and 
consequential gains” on ill -gotten assets. 2 Restatement (Third) of 
Restitution and Unjust Enrichment (“Restatement”) § 53(1) & cmt. a 
(Am. L. Inst. 2011); see 1 Dan B. Dobbs, Law of Remedies: Damages –
Equity–Restitution § 3.6(2), at 342-43 (2d ed. 1993) (“When the 
defendant is under a duty to pay the plaintiff as damages or 
otherwise, and during the period of nonpayment the defendant has a 
legally recognized benefit from use of the money retained, he is under 
an obligation to make restitution of that benefit to the plaintiff, 
whether the benefit is measured in profits or interest or some other 
form of use value.”). Supplemental enrichment may thus reflect 

11 The parties disagree about the calculation of post -judgment 
interest. In a December 2, 2022 order, the district court took a different 
approach from what either party argues here. Ahmed appealed from t his 
order, and the appeal was consolidated with other appeals from 
liquidation, all of which were held in abeyance pending this appeal. As 
explained infra, those appeals are dismissed as moot. 
passive gains on ill-gotten funds, without the direct manipulation of 
a frau dster. We review a district court’s “choice of remedies” for 
abuse of discretion. SEC v. Frohling, 851 F.3d 132, 139 (2d Cir. 2016). 
2. Prejudgment Interest 
The district court did not abuse its discretion by awarding 
prejudgment interest at the IRS underpayment rate for the period 
before the asset freeze. The Relief Defendants argue that 
prejudgment interest was inappropriate because they did not act 
wrongfully or know of Ahmed’s wrongful actions and, even if 
appropriate, the IRS underpayment rate was punitive and thus 
contrary to traditional equitable principles. The SEC counters that 
the Relief Defendants’ alleged good faith is irrelevant to prejudgment 
interest on Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation. Moreover, the Relief 
Defendants present no evidence that the IRS underpayment rate 
would overcompensate Ahmed’s victims and thus be punitive. We 
agree with the SEC. 
“The decision whether to g rant prejudgment interest and the 
rate used if such interest is granted are matters confided to the district 
court’s broad discretion, and will not be overturned on appeal absent 
an abuse of that discretion.” Endico Potatoes, Inc. v. CIT 
Grp./Factoring, Inc., 67 F.3d 1063, 1071-72 (2d Cir. 1995) (cleaned up). 
In assessing prejudgment -interest awards, a court should consider 
“(i) the need to fully compensate the wronged party for actual 
damages suffered, (ii) considerations of fairness and the relative 
equities of the award, (iii) the remedial purpose of the statute 
involved, and/or (iv) such other general principles as are deemed 
relevant by the court.” Wickham Contracting Co. v. Loc. Union No. 3, 
Int’l Bhd. of Elec. Workers, AFL-CIO, 955 F.2d 831, 834 (2d Cir. 1992). 
The district court did not abuse its discretion by awarding 
prejudgment interest at the IRS underpayment rate . First, the good 
faith of the Relief Defendants is im material because a prejudgment 
award concerns the amount that Ahmed , the prima ry defendant, 
must disgorge. Cf. Morales v. Freund, 163 F.3d 763, 767 (2d Cir. 1999) 
(upholding the decision not to award prejudgment interest when the 
“district court suggested that the defendants, though liable, might 
well have acted in good faith”). See generally CFTC v. Walsh, 618 F.3d 
218, 225 (2d Cir. 2010) (“A relief defendant is a person who holds the 
subject matter of the litigation in a subordinate or possessory 
capacity . . . [and] may be joined in a securities enforcement action to 
aid the recovery of relief.” (cleaned up )). The district court found 
that Ahmed committed securities fraud, so there is no question that 
he lacked good faith . Even though, as explained infra, relief-
defendant liability may be inappropriate as against a particular asset, 
that does not bear on the propriety or size of prejudgment interest 
against the primary defendant. See SEC v. Miller, 808 F.3d 623, 635 
(2d Cir. 2015) (“Equitable relief against a third-party non -wrongdoer 
may be entered where such an individual (1) has received ill -gotten 
funds; and (2) does not have a legitimate claim to those fun ds.” 
(cleaned up)). 
Second, the district court did not abuse its discretion by 
awarding prejudgment interest at the IRS underpayment rate. That 
rate “reflects what it would have cost to borrow the money from the 
government and therefore reasonably approxi mates one of the 
benefits the defendant derived from its fraud.” SEC v. First Jersey 
Sec., Inc., 101 F.3d 1450, 1476 (2d Cir. 1996) (affirming use of the IRS 
underpayment rate) . This rate thus reflects “use value,” or 
unearned interest that the rightful owner of the funds could have 
received but for the fraud. In First Jersey, we squarely rejected the 
argument that the district court should have applied the one -year 
treasury-bill rate—i.e., “the rate at which one lends money to the 
government rather than borrows money from it ”—because 
“defendants have had the use of the money.” Id. at 1476-77. Here, 
Ahmed held the ill -gotten gains before the asset freeze, so the IRS 
underpayment rate was appropriate. 12 We thus affirm the district 
court’s award of prejudgment interest. 
3. Actual Gains 
We vacate and remand the district court’s award of actual gains 
because it failed to account for traditional equitable limitations. The 
parties dispute the proper equity analog for actual gains. On one 
hand, the Relief Defendants argue that we should look to constructive 
trust, which requires that gains come from assets traceable to the 
fraud. On the other hand, the SEC argues that t he proper equity 
analog is “accounting” or “accounting for profits,” forms of 
restitution by money judgment. 
Both constructive trust and accounting may be appropriate 
analogs for a primary disgorgement award, but neither is helpful 
here. Our review is l imited to the scope of actual gains on disgorged 
assets—i.e., “supplemental or collateral benefits derived by the 
recipient from an initial transaction with the claimant.” 2 

 12 The Relief Defendants have not put forth any evidence that the 
investment return from the Oak funds was less than the IRS underpayment 
rate. Their concerns about overcompensation are thus unfounded or, at 
the very least, premature before distribu tion. See 2 Restatement § 53(1) 
(“[Supplemental] [e]nrichment . . . may be presumed in the case of a 
recipient who is enriched by misconduct.”). 
Restatement § 53 cmt. a; see 1 Dobbs, Law of Remedies, supra at 31, 
§ 4.5(3), at 637 (“[I]f a consequential benefit measure is justified, it 
need not be pursued under either a trust or an accounting theory.”). 
The most appropriate equity analog for the actual-gains award 
here appears to be “consequential gains .” Consequential gains 
“result from a profitable investment, use, or other disposition of the 
[plaintiff’s] property, distinct from the transaction by which the 
defendant was originally enriched.” 2 Restatement § 53 cmt. d; see 
also 1 Dobbs, Law of Remedies, supra at 31, § 4.5(3), at 637 (“In the case 
of restitution, courts can take the measure of consequential benefits, not 
the value of the thing itself but the value it produces in the hands of 
defendant.” (emphasis in original)). 
One equitable limitation on consequential gains is that a 
“conscious wrongdoer” is liable for “consequential gains that are not 
unduly remote .” 2 Restatement § 53(3). As the Restatement 
commentary suggests, “[t]he object of the disgorgement remedy —to 
eliminate the possibility of profit from conscious wrongdoing” —is 
measured by the “net increase in the assets of the wrongdoer, to the 
extent that this increase is attributable to the underlying wrong.” Id. 
§ 51 cmt. e (emphasis added). And treatises confirm: 
Even the willful wrongdoer should not be made to give 
up that which is his own; the principle is disgorgement, 
not plunder. . . . [S]ome apportionment must be made 
between those profits attributable to the plaintiff’s 
property and those earned by the defendant’s efforts and 
investment, limiting the plaintiff to the profits fairly 
attributable to his share. 
1 Dobbs , Law of Remedies, supra at 31, § 4.5(3), at 642 (emphasis 
added). So consequential gains on assets subject to disgorgement 
must not be unduly remote from the fraud.13 
Here, the district court did not consider whether consequential 
gains on frozen assets were unduly remote from Ahmed’s fraud. Its 
September 6, 2018 ruling simply awarded “actual returns on the 
frozen assets” without elaboration or limitation based on Ahmed’s 
profitable uses of the frozen assets. Special App’x at SPA-106. 14 
And its December 14, 2018 ruling, which sought to clarify the 

13 The Restatement provides “scant guidance on how to determine 
wealth legally attributable to a wrong for purposes of disgorgement” and 
remoteness. Mark P. Gergen, Causation in Disgorgement , 92 B.U. L. Rev. 
827, 827 (2012); see also George E. Palmer, Law of Restitution § 2.13 (3d ed. 
2023) (noting a “recurring problem[] in the law of restitution” is calculating 
“the defendant’s gain [that] is the product not solely of the plaintiff’s 
interest but also of contributions made by the defendant”). But several 
factors may guide courts awarding consequential gains, including “general 
considerations of fairness, . . . the nature of the defendant’s wrong, the 
relative extent of his contribution, and the feasibility of separating [gains] 
from the contribution traceabl e to the plaintiff’s interest.” Palmer, Law of 
Restitution, supra, § 2.13; see 1 Dobbs, Law of Remedies, supra at 31, § 4.5(3), 
at 646 (providing factors governing “[r]ecovery of the defendant’s 
consequential gains”). 
14 District courts have discretion in awarding supplemental 
enrichment, which could include “actual returns on the frozen assets. ” 
Special App’x at SPA -106. We have previously limited the availability of 
prejudgment interest during the period of an asset freeze when the 
defendant has “ been denied the use of those assets. ” SEC v. Razmilovic , 
738 F.3d 14, 36 (2d Cir. 2013). But it may be appropriate for a district court 
to award an alternative measure of supplemental enrichment, such as a 
fixed interest rate that approximates “ fair compensation to the person 
wronged” within the equitable limits set forth in Liu. 140 S. Ct. at 1943. 
previous ruling, again imposed no limitation on actual gains and 
instead ordered disgorgement of “any actual interest accrued or gains 
earned on the frozen assets used to satisfy that disgorgement 
amount.” Id. at SPA-151. Indeed, at oral argument, the SEC 
conceded that these 2018 orders failed to address any equitable 
limitation on actual gains. Moreover, the district court’s September 
4, 2019 ruling on Ahmed’s motion to alter the judgment merely 
clarified that (1) “interest or gains are owed only on the frozen assets 
used to satisfy the disgorgement amount”; and (2) “interest or gains 
should be calculated by determining the actual interest accrued or 
gains earned and not by using the checking account interest rate.” 
Id. at SPA-207 (cleaned up). After this Court remanded for the 
district court to recalculate Ahmed’s disgorgement obligation under 
the NDAA, the district court stated it would award “any interest or 
gains accrued on disgorged frozen assets from the date of the [district 
court’s] freeze order ,” again without restriction. Id. at SPA -251. 
The district court should have ensured that consequential gains on 
frozen assets were not unduly remote from Ahmed’s wrongdoing or, 
in other words, were attributable to the fraud. 
We disagree with t he SEC’s argument that the district court’s 
award of actual gains is authorized by SEC v. Razmilovic, 738 F.3d 14 
(2d Cir. 2013). In Razmilovic, we held that prejudgment interest was 
inappropriate during the period of an asset freeze because “the 
defendant has already, for that period, been denied the use of those 
assets.” Id. at 36. In passing, we also noted, “[i]n such a case, after 
a final order of disgorgement, the funds previously frozen would 
presumably be turned over to the government in complete or partial 
satisfaction of the disgorgement order, along with any interest that 
has accrued on them during the freeze period.” Id. We do not read 
Razmilovic to give the district court blanket permission to award 
actual gains without limitations. Rather, u nder Liu, any such award 
must be consistent with equity, and the use of the word “presumably” 
in Razmilovic suggests that its discussion of supplemental enrichment 
(i.e., “interest that has accrued”) was dicta. Id. 
The Relief Defendants argue that our decision in SEC v. Manor 
Nursing Centers, Inc., 458 F.2d 1082 (2d Cir. 1972), bars the award of 
actual gains. This, too, is inapposite. The district court in Manor 
Nursing ordered disgorgement of “proceeds received in connection” 
with the defendants’ fraud and “profits and income earned on such 
proceeds.” Id. at 1104 (emphasis omitted). We affirmed 
disgorgement of “proceeds” as “a proper exercise of the district 
court’s equity powers” but vacated the district court’s award “of 
profits and income earned on the proceeds” as “a penalty 
assessment.” Id. We reasoned that a n award of “profits” would 
“arbitrarily requir[e] those [defendants] who invested wisely to 
refund substantially more than other [defendants].” Id. at 1104-05. 
The “only plausible justification” for disgorgement of “profits and 
income” was “the deterrent force,” but we found the district court’s 
orders of injunctive relief and disgorgement of “proceeds” were 
“sufficient deterrence to further violations” of the federal securities 
laws. Id. at 1104. Instead of “profits and income,” we ordered 
“interest [on the proceeds] at the New York legal rate from the date 
[defendants] received the proceeds.” Id. at 1105. 
But any suggestion in Manor Nursing that consequential gains 
are generally impermissible is in tension with Liu. Under Liu, if 
supplemental enrichment is consistent with traditional principles of 
equity, it is not a “penalty.” S upplemental enrichment is governed 
by restitutionary principles—i.e., “restor[ing] the status quo,” Liu, 140 
S. Ct. at 1943 (internal quotation marks omitted)—not deterrence of 
“further violations” of the securities laws, Manor Nursing, 458 F.2d at 
1104. Moreover, district courts retain broad discretion as to the 
appropriate measure of supplemental enrichment, whether it is a 
form of profits or interest. See, e.g., 1 Dobbs , Law of Remedies, supra 
at 31, § 3.6(2), at 343 (“The profits of the fiduciary in t his 
[disgorgement] example represent one measure of use value of the 
money. It is capable of earning interest and it is capable of earning 
profits. In this kind of case the plaintiff is entitled to the profits 
measure if he prefers.”). 
We thus remand for the district court to reassess actual gains in 
light of Liu. On remand, the district court retains discretion over the 
appropriate measure of supplemental enrichment. Liu offers 
general guideposts for equitable relief: namely, wrongdoers should 
(1) be deprived of their net profits from unlawful activity; and (2) “not 
be punished by paying more than a fair compensation to the person 
wronged.” 140 S. Ct. at 1942-43 (cleaned up). If the district court 
reimposes an actual-gains award on disgorged assets, it should 
ensure that consequential gains on the frozen assets are not “unduly 
remote.” See supra note 13. The district court may also elect a 
different measure of supplemental enrichment consistent with “fair 
compensation,” such as a fixed-interest rate for the period of the asset 
freeze.

15 The parties dispute the district court’s method of calculating 
actual gains, but we decline to reach this issue given our vacatur of the 
actual-gains award. 
D. Nominee Doctrine 
 Finally, the district court’s analysis in support of its conclusion 
that the Relief Defendants are merely nominal owners of all the frozen 
assets held in their names was inadequate. The Relief Defendants 
argue that the district court should have applied an asset -by-asset 
approach to the nominee theory and the SEC failed to satisfy its 
burden of proving that the Relief Defendants were mere nominees of 
Ahmed as to each asset when they held legal title to, controlled, and 
received benefits from those assets. The SEC argues that the district 
court correctly characterized the “nominee” doctrine, did not shift the 
burden of persuasion to the Relief Defendants, and could not have 
applied an asset -by-asset approach because the Relief Defendants 
failed to meet their burden to produce evidence of their legitimate 
ownership of each of the disputed assets. Furthermore, if the Court 
remands, the SEC seeks permission to pursue alternative theories of 
recovery, including under Cavanagh I, 155 F.3d 129. 
1. Legal Standard 
Equitable limits on disgorgement differ between assets held by 
the primary wrongdoer (i.e., Ahmed) and those held by third -party 
non-wrongdoers (i.e., Relief Defendants). See Miller, 808 F.3d at 635. 
As to primary defendants, “[t]he amount of disgorgement ordered 
need only be a reasonable approximation of profits causally 
connected to the violation.” Razmilovic, 738 F.3d at 31 (cleaned up ). 
District court s need not “apply equitable tracing rules to identify 
specific funds in the defendant’s possession that are subject to 
return.” FTC v. Bronson Partners, LLC, 654 F.3d 359, 373 (2d Cir. 
2011); see, e.g., Contorinis, 743 F.3d at 303 (explaining, in the context of 
an insider -trading violation, “t he insider would unquestionably be 
liable to disgorge the profit . . . whether the insider trader has put his 
profits into a bank account, dissipated them on transient pleasures, or 
given them away to others”). So the district court is not required to 
“trace” ill-gotten gains to specific assets in Ahmed’s possession—any 
of his own assets may be liquidated to satisfy his disgorgement 
obligation.16 
For relief defendants, however, equity imposes different rules. 
“A court of equity will wrest property fraudulently acquired, not only 
from the perpetrator of the fraud, but . . . from his children and his 
children’s children, or, as elsewhere said, from any persons amongst 
whom he may have parceled out the fruits of his fraud.” 3 John 
Norton Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence § 918, at 601 (5th ed. 1994) 
(cleaned up ). But third parties, like the R elief Defendants, have a 
bona fide purchase defense according to which “[a] purchaser for 
value and without notice acquires the legal interest that the grantor 
holds and purports to convey, free of equitable interests that a 
restitution claimant might have asserted against the property in the 
hands of the grantor.” 2 Restatement § 66; see also id. § 58(2) (“A 
claimant entitled to restitution from property or its traceable product 
may assert the same rights against any subsequent transferee who is 
not a bona fide purchaser . . . or bona fide payee .”). A bona fide 
purchase defense is inherently asset specific, requiring a court to 
determine whether a third party (1) gave value in exchange for an 
asset in particular and (2) lacked notice as to that asset ’s true 
provenance. 

16 Since Liu, this Court has affirmed the lack of a tracing requirement 
as to primary-defendant disgorgement. See, e.g., SEC v. de Maison, No. 18-
2564, 2021 WL 5936385, at *2 (2d Cir. Dec. 16, 2021). 
In Cavanagh I, we recognized third-party liability in a securities-
enforcement action when a relief defendant “(1) has received ill -
gotten funds; and (2) does not have a legitimate claim to those funds.” 
155 F.3d at 136. Although Cavanagh I was decided in the asset-freeze 
context, it is based on the same background principles of equity , 
including the bona fide purchase rule. See Palmer, Law of 
Restitution, supra at 36 n.13, § 19.7 (“Courts are generally agreed that 
an innocent person who obtains a benefit through the wrongful act of 
a third person will be required to make restitution to the one at whose 
expense the benefit was obtained, unless, in addition to his innocence, 
the recipient is protected because he gave value.”). So relief-
defendant liability under Cavanagh I applies to disgorgement.17 
But equity also recognizes a third way: the so -called 
“nominee” theory. A “nominee” holds bare legal title to an asset but 
is not its true equitable owner. Such an asset may be disgorged to 
satisfy a judgment against a third party deemed to be the asset’s true 
equitable owner.
18 This doctrine reflects the principle that “equ ity 
looks to the intent, rather than to the form,” and is thus “ able to treat 
that as done which in good conscience ought to be done.” 2 
Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence, supra at 41, §§ 363, 378, at 8, 41 

17 Several sister circuits also have conti nued to recognize relief -
defendant liability after Liu. See, e.g., SEC v. Berkeley Healthcare Dynamics, 
LLC, No. 20 -16754, 2022 WL 42807, at *2 (9th Cir. Jan. 5, 2022); SEC v. 
Camarco, No. 19-1486, 2021 WL 5985058, at *13- 17 (10th Cir. Dec. 16, 2021). 
18 Relief Defendants argue that state law governs the “nominee” 
doctrine. We disagree. Federal courts are courts of law and equity, see 
U.S. Const. art. III, § 2, cl. 1, and to deduce equitable limits, we may look to 
the practices of the state and federal courts and “the ordinary principles and 
practice of courts of chancery.” Liu, 140 S. Ct. at 1950 (cleaned up). 
(emphasis omitted ). “Equity’s advantage in fashioni ng 
restitutionary remedies was . . . sidestepping title problems . . . . to act 
against the person rather than against the property.” 1 Dobbs , Law 
of Remedies, supra at 31, § 4.3(1), at 587. The principle undergirding 
the nominee theory has been widely applied. See, e.g., Nat’l Bank v. 
Case, 99 U.S. 628, 632 (1878) (“A transfer for the mere purpose of 
avoiding his liability to the company or its creditors is fraudulent and 
void, and he remains still liable. . . . [I]f, in fact, the transferee is a mere 
tool or nominee of the transferrer, so that, as between themselves, 
there has been no real transfer, . . . the transfer will be held for 
nought.” (cleaned up )); Higgins v. Smith, 308 U.S. 473, 475 (1940) 
(“[T]he jury was instructed to find whether these sales by the 
taxpayer . . . were actual transfers of property . . . or whether they 
were to be regarded as simply ‘a transfer by Mr. Smith’s left hand, 
being his individual hand, into his right hand, being his c orporate 
hand, so that in truth and fact there was no transfer at all.’”). We 
thus agree with the district court that the nominee theory, as a 
reflection of background equitable principle s, may be used to 
determine the owner of an asset for disgorgement p urposes. If a 
relief defendant is deemed a mere nomin al owner of an asset that is 
equitably owned by the primary defendant, the equitable rules 
governing primary -defendant disgorgement apply. Like the bona 
fide purchase defense, the nominee doctrine is n ecessarily an asset-
specific inquiry. The inquiry turns on a third party’s behavior 
toward a particular asset, such as whether the third party controlled, 
benefitted from, and/or transferred a particular asset held in a 
nominee’s name. We review a district court’s exercise of equitable 
power to fashion a disgorgement remedy for abuse of discretion. 
Frohling, 851 F.3d at 139. 
2. Application 
The district court’s application of the nominee doctrine was 
inadequate as to most of the assets in question because it failed to 
determine whether the SEC proved that these particular asset s (or 
groups of similar assets) were held by the Relief Defendants as mere 
nominees of Ahmed. The district court invoked a six-factor nominee 
test but did not apply it on an asset-by-asset basis. Instead, it 
deemed the Relief Defendants nomin al owners of a large swathe of 
assets without finding that Ahmed is in fact the equitable owner. 
This erroneously shifted the burden to the Relief Defendants to show 
that Ahmed is not the equitable owner of asset s to which the Relief 
Defendants hold legal title.19 See Dan B. Dobbs & Caprice L. Roberts, 
Law of Remedies: Damages–Equity–Restitution § 4.4(3), at 446 (3d ed. 
2018) (“The law of unjust enrichment places the burden of production 
on the party seeking disgorgement.”). 
Specifically, the district court’s analysis regarding the Iftikar A. 
Ahmed Family Trust, MetLife Policy (which was owned by the Iftikar 
A. Ahmed Family Trust), and Fidelity x7540 account was sufficient 
because the district court weighed the SEC’s evidence and considered 
the Relief Defendants’ counter -evidence as to each asset and made 

19 We note, however, that relief defendants carry the burden of proof 
with respect to affirmative defenses such as bona fide purchase. See CFTC 
v. Kimberlynn Creek Ranch, Inc. , 276 F.3d 187, 192 n.5 (4th Cir. 2002) . We 
also note that courts in civil cases can draw adverse inferences against relief 
defendants should they invoke their Fifth Amendment privilege not to 
testify. See SEC v. Colello, 139 F.3d 674, 677-78 (9th Cir. 1998). 
findings on the record . But as to other assets, the district court’s 
analysis was insufficient . For many of the disputed assets, the 
district court simply rejected the Relief Defendants’ request for an 
asset-by-asset approach by noting that the Relief Defendants “made 
this same argument before the Second Circuit and it was soundly 
rejected.” Special App’x at SPA-110 (citing I-Cubed, 664 F. App’x at 
56-57). But I-Cubed concerned the asset freeze, which required “a 
lesser showing than is necessary for other forms of equitable relief,” 
like disgorgement. I-Cubed, 664 F. App’x at 55. Moreover, f or 
certain assets, such as the contents of the safety deposit box and the 
Ahmeds’ two Park Avenue apartments, the district court made 
findings only at the preliminary-injunction stage . And t he district 
court was silent as to other assets, such as Shalini Ahmed’s earrings 
and designer handbags, but it nevertheless authorized disgorgement 
of those assets. 
As a result, the district court erroneously shifted the burden to 
the Relief Defendants to present evidence that they were the true 
owners of these assets. But t he burden remained with the SEC to 
prove that Ahmed was the true owner of each asset (or group of 
similar assets) , and the district court should have made specific 
findings accordingly . Furthermore, the district court discussed 
Ahmed’s invocation of his Fifth Amendment right against self -
incrimination and Shalini Ahmed’s invocation of her marital privilege 
but failed to discuss what, if any, adverse inference should be drawn. 
So, with the exception of the district court’s findings that 
Ahmed is the equitable owner of the Iftikar A. Ahmed Family Trust, 
MetLife Policy, and Fidelity x7540 account, we vacate and remand the 
district court’s disgorgement order as to the Relief Defendants’ assets. 
On remand, the SEC, as the party seeking disgorgement, must prove 
that the Relief Defendan ts are nominees for each asset or class of 
assets.20 If the district court finds that an asset is nominally owned 
by one of the Relief Defendants (and actually owned by Ahmed), it 
may be disgorged. If the district court finds that an asset is not 
nominally owned by one of the Relief Defendants, then the district 
court may consider whether an alternative theory of relief-defendant 
liability permits disgorgement of the asset. For example, the district 
court may apply Cavanagh I liability or a joint -ownership theory. 21 
Moreover, c onsistent with the burden of proof, the district court 
should state on the record what, if any, adverse inferences it draws 
from the Relief Defendants’ failure to testify if the SEC offers that 
evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
 We conclude that the district court (1) reasonably excluded 
Ahmed from parts of discovery and denied him access to frozen 
funds to hire counsel; (2) accurately calculated disgorgement by 
approximating the “net profits” of Ahmed’s fraud; and (3) prope rly 
gave retroactive effect to the NDAA’s disgorgement amendments. 
But applying traditional principles of equity under Liu, we also 
conclude that (4) the district court’s award of actual gains exceeded 
equitable limitations by failing to ensure that no un duly remote 

20 We agree with the Relief Defendants’ suggestion at argument that 
“in some cases assets can be grouped if the same analysis applies to 
multiple assets” or “[c]lasses of assets.” Oral Arg. Tr. at 12 -13. 
21 The parties dispute whether the district court’s joint-ownership 
analysis was dicta or an alternative holding. The record is unclear, and the 
district court is best positioned to clarify on remand. 
consequential gains are awarded; and (5) the “nominee” doctrine —
though well-established in equity and applicable to disgorgement—
must be applied on an asset -by-asset basis. For the foregoing 
reasons, we affirm in part and vacate and remand in part the district 
court’s judgment. 
Our vacatur of the actual -gains award and application of the 
nominee doctrine affects the scope of the district court’s liquidation 
orders. In a separate order, we thus sua sponte dismiss as moot 
Defendants’ appeals from those orders, 22-135, 22-184, 22-3077, 22-
3148. We also deny as moot Relief Defendants’ motions for a stay of 
liquidation, and all stays are vacated.