FOR PUBLICATION 

UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
Plaintiff-Appellee, 

v. 

B
ENJAMIN KOZIOL, AKA Benjamin 
Joseph Donovan, AKA Benjamin 
Joseph Koziol, 
Defendant-Appellant. 
 No. 19-50018 

D.C. No. 
2:18-cr-00022-
CAS-1 

OPINION 

Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the Central District of California 
Christina A. Snyder, District Judge, Presiding 

Argued and Submitted April 22, 2020 
Pasadena, California 

Filed April 13, 2021 

Before: Carlos T. Bea and Bridget S. Bade, Circuit Judges, 
and Gershwin A. Drain,* District Judge. 

Opinion by Judge Bade 

* The Honorable Gershwin A. Drain, United States District Judge 
for the Eastern District of Michigan, sitting by designation. 
2 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

SUMMARY** 

Criminal Law 
The panel affirmed a conviction for attempted extortion 
under the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a), for threatening to 
file against a well -known entertainer a suit asserting 
salacious and scandalous allegations if the entertainer didn’t 
settle for $1,000,000; vacated the sentence; and remanded 
for resentencing. 
The defendant argued that his conviction must be 
reversed because the threat of litigation, even when 
“frivolous, meritless, or made in bad faith,” can never 
constitute “wrongful” conduct under the Hobbs Act, which 
imposes criminal liability for extortion on those who obtain 
property from another by the “wrongful use of . . . fear.” The 
panel concluded that there is no statutory, consti tutional, or 
policy basis to exclude categorically threats of sham 
litigation from criminal liability under the Hobbs Act. The 
panel therefore affirmed the denial of the defendant’s motion 
for acquittal on this basis. 
The panel wrote that the circumstanc es of the threats 
must be considered to determine if the means used were 
“wrongful” under the Act, of if the ends were “wrongful” 
because the defendant sought property to which he knew he 
had no lawful claims. Rejecting the defendant’s sufficiency-
of-the-evidence challenge, the panel held that when viewed 
in the light most favorable to the government, the evidence 
was more than sufficient for the jury to conclude beyond a 

** This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It 
has been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 3 

reasonable doubt that the defendant knew his claims against 
the entertainer were baseless and that he had no right to 
demand money from the entertainer. 
The panel rejected the defendant’s arguments of 
instructional and evidentiary error. 
The panel held that the district court did not err by 
applying a fourteen -level increase unde r U.S.S.G. 
§ 2B3.3(b)(1) based on the amount ($1,000,000) that the 
defendant demanded from the entertainer. The panel held 
that the district court’s erroneous failure to apply U.S.S.G. 
§ 2X1.1—which provides guidelines for attempt offenses 
not otherwise covered by a specific offense guideline—was 
plain, and remanded for resentencing.

COUNSEL 

Carlton F. Gunn (argued), Pasadena, California, for 
Defendant-Appellant. 

Eddie A. Jaurequi (argued) Assistant United States 
Attorney; L. Ashley Aull, Chief, Criminal Appeals Section; 
Nicola T. Hanna, United States Attorney; United States 
Attorney’s Office , Los Angeles, California ; for Plaintiff -
Appellee. 

OPINION 
BADE, Circuit Judge: 
Defendant-Appellant Benjamin Koziol was convicted of 
attempted extortion under the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1951(a), for threatening to file suit against a well- known 
4 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

entertainer asserting salacious and scandalous allegations of 
sexual harassment, sexual assault, and assault and battery if 
the entertainer did not settle with Koziol for $1,000,000.
On appeal, Koziol argues that this court should vacate his 
conviction and remand with instructions to enter a judgment 
of acquittal because the threat of litigation, even a baseless 
and bad faith threat, cannot constitute “wrongful” conduct 
under the Hobbs Act. Koziol also challenges the sufficiency 
of the evidence and asserts instructional, evidentiary, and 
sentencing errors. We affirm his conviction, but remand for 
resentencing. 
I. 
A. 
On December 25, 2015, the manager for a well -known 
and successful entertainer reviewed advertisements for 
“erotic massages” on the website Backpage.com. He sent a 
text message to a number listed in one of these 
advertisements to set up an appointment. But the masseuse, 
Jordan Sweet, was not immediately available and the 
manager did not want to make a later appointment that day. 
A few weeks later, on January 10, 2016, the manager 
sent another text message to Sweet to schedule an 
appointment. This time Sweet was av ailable immediately, 

1 This case arises from Koziol’s threats of litigation against a music 
manager and one of his clients, a well -known singer -songwriter and 
entertainer. The identities of the manager and the entertainer were 
subject to a protective order in the district court. Although the parties do 
not necessarily agree that the protective order remains in effect on 
appeal, they refer to these individuals by the pseudonyms “Manager” and 
“Entertainer” and, therefore, we similarly refer to these individuals as the 
manager and the entertainer. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 5 

and she directed the manager to come to her apartment. 
Once he arrived at Sweet’s apartment, the manager disrobed. 
Sweet directed the manager to lie on a table, covered him 
with a towel, and proceeded to engage in what the manager 
described as “light petting.” The manager asked Sweet “if 
there [would be] mutual touching,” but Sweet denied the 
advance and shortly after demanded that the manager leave. 
The two later exchanged a series of text messages, in which 
the manager expressed his displeasure with the experience. 
A few days later, the manager received a voicemail 
message on his phone from an attorney, Bobby Saadian. The 
call, however, was addressed to the entertainer. Saadian 
alleged that the entertainer had engaged in inappropriate 
behavior during a massage. When the manager called 
Saadian in response to the voicemail message, the manager 
realized that the call was about the manager’s encounter with 
Sweet. 
On January 14, 2016, Saadian sent the manager’s 
attorney a letter alleg ing that the manager “physically and 
verbally assaulted and battered” Sweet, demanding 
$250,000 to settle Sweet’s claims against the manager, 
offering the manager “an opportunity to extricate himself 
from this matter without exposure,” and threatening to 
“promptly file and serve a lawsuit and notify the media of 
said incident” if the manager did not respond by the next day. 
In this letter, Sweet’s attorney claimed that there was a video 
that showed the manager at the apartment. On January 26, 
2016, the ma nager entered into a confidential settlement 
agreement with Sweet, denying the allegations and resolving 
any potential lawsuit for $225,000. In the settlement 
agreement, Sweet also released the entertainer from any 
claims. 
6 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

Approximately eight months later , in August 2016, 
Koziol left a voicemail message on the manager’s phone and 
identified himself as Sweet’s husband. The manager did not 
return the call and instead forwarded the message to his 
attorneys. Shortly after receiving the message, the 
manager’s attorney, Kerry Garvis Wright, called Koziol. 
Initially, Koziol spoke cryptically, stating that he wanted to 
speak with the manager “about something that happened a 
while ago.” But soon he spoke more candidly and 
mentioned the January 10, 2016 massage. Wright suggested 
that they speak in person; Koziol agreed and said he would 
contact Wright to schedule a meeting. 
But a meeting between Wright and Koziol did not occur. 
Instead, shortly after the first call, Koziol called again and 
told Wright he would not meet with her in person. In this 
second phone conversation Koziol told Wright that he was 
present the night of the massage, but in the bedroom of the 
apartment. Koziol also stated that when he left the bedroom 
and entered the living room, the manager verbally and 
physically assaulted him. Wright told Koziol that she did 
not believe him. 
Neither the manager nor Wright heard from Koziol for 
several months after the August 2016 calls. Then, on 
December 28, 2016, Sherwin Arzani, an attorney 
representing Koziol, delivered a letter to an attorney who 
previously represented the entertainer. An identical letter 
arrived two days later at Wright’s firm. In that letter, 
Koziol’s attorney accused the entertainer—not the 
manager—of physically assaulting and batt ering Koziol as 
he protected Sweet from “unwanted physical advances” 
during the January 2016 massage. He also warned of the 
possibility of legal action if the entertainer failed to respond 
to the letter. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 7 

In response, Wright sent a letter to Arzani, statin g that 
her firm represented the manager, not the entertainer, and 
that it was the manager who had been at Sweet’s apartment 
on the night in question. Wright denounced Koziol’s 
allegations as “a complete and utter fabrication.” Wright 
also threatened legal action against both Koziol and Sweet if 
Koziol persisted in his attempts to extract a further 
settlement from the manager. Arzani did not respond. 
The entertainer and the manager did not hear from 
Koziol again until October 2017—about ten months after the 
last contact with Koziol’s then -attorney, Arzani, and about 
twenty-one months after the massage incident. Koziol sent 
the manager an email trying to contact the entertainer or the 
entertainer’s attorney. The manager forwarded the email to 
the entertainer’s attorney, Reid Hunter, who soon responded. 
On October 17, 2017, Koziol replied to Hunter in a 
lengthy email in which he accused the entertainer of 
contacting Sweet for a massage in December 2015. The 
email contained a bevy of additional allegations against the 
entertainer, including that: (1) he attempted to touch Sweet 
several times during the massage, (2) he cursed at Sweet and 
called her “a f[---]ing tease” when she refused his advances, 
(3) when Koziol attempted to intervene, the entertainer 
punched him in the face, knocking him unconscious, and 
(4) the entertainer continued to text Sweet following the 
encounter, threatening to report Sweet to her apartment 
management for her illicit business. Koziol further claimed 
he had a video of the entertainer at the building on the night 
of the incident, as well as a photograph of his injuries from 
8 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

the entertainer punching him. 2 Koziol concluded with the 
following demand: 
I am seeking $1,000,000 in damages on or 
before Nov 1st 2017. I am also open to a 
structured settlement. If I don’t receive 
payment by this date, I am prepared to 
promptly file my complaint and supporting 
documents with the court. THIS LETTER IS 
FOR SETTLEMENT PURPOSES ONLY! 
Hunter responded to Koziol’s email with a series of 
questions to probe Koziol’s claims. The two continued to 
exchange email messages, with Hunter ultimately requesting 
an extension from Koziol’s original November 1, 2017 
deadline. Koziol, however, denounced the request as a 
“stahl [sic] tactic” and indicated that “TIME IS OF THE 
ESSENCE!” Nevertheless, he offered the entertainer a 
reprieve of one week to consider the offer. Koziol 
threatened that he would file a complaint with his allegations 
on November 8, 2017 if he did not receive a settlement. 
After speakin g to the entertainer, Hunter sent an email to 
Koziol on November 3, 2017 and asked to speak to Koziol 
by phone to discuss some additional questions. But Koziol 
refused to speak with Hunter on the phone. Instead, he sent 
another email and reiterated his d emand to settle for 

2 The distri ct court admitted into evidence Koziol’s October 17, 
2017 email to Hunter, in which he claimed that he had a video of the 
entertainer at the apartment building on the night of the January 2016 
massage. Koziol did not include the video in his email to Hunt er. In 
addition, the government presented testimony that, despite attempts to 
obtain a copy of the alleged video, the FBI was unable to do so. 
Moreover, Koziol did not present any video evidence at the trial and 
later, at his sentencing hearing, admitted that he never had a video of the 
entertainer and that he lied when he claimed that he did. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 9 

$1,000,000, which would “NOT BE RENEWED AFTER” 
November 7, 2017. 
When the deadline came, Hunter replied and rejected 
Koziol’s offer to settle as “ridiculous.” Hunter further stated 
that the entertainer would take legal action against K oziol 
should he follow through on his threat to file a lawsuit. In 
reply, Koziol stated that the entertainer’s threat of legal 
action “d[id] not intimidate or deter [him] at all” because he 
had “no money or assets to go after.” Because the entertainer 
failed to respond, Koziol stated he had “no option other than 
to move forward with a jury trial.” However, Koziol gave 
the entertainer one last chance to reconsider or counter his 
settlement offer “ASAP.” 
On November 10, 2017, Lynn Neils, another of the 
entertainer’s attorneys—and a former federal prosecutor —
contacted Koziol on the entertainer’s behalf in a letter 
delivered to Koziol’s email account. In that letter, Neils 
asserted that Koziol’s conduct vio lated a litany of federal 
and state criminal statutes, including the Hobbs Act. She 
also advised Koziol that metadata of the photograph 
purportedly showing Koziol’s injuries from the assault 
“reveals that this photograph was taken nearly a year later—
proving that you are utterly lying about the facts.”
Undeterred, Koziol stated that he would “be moving 
immediately forward to file [his] lawsuit within the next few 
days.” But, once more, he offered the entertainer the chance 

3 The government introduced evidence at trial establishing that the 
photograph was taken in December 2016, nearly a year after the alleged 
assault. Koziol does not dispute this evidence on appeal and 
acknowledges that metadata established that the photograph was taken 
in December 2016. 
10 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

to settle if he had “a change of heart.” The entertainer did 
not settle, and Koziol never filed his lawsuit. 
B. 
Nonetheless, legal action soon commenced. On January 
19, 2018, a federal grand jury in the Central District of 
California indicted Koziol for attempted extortion under the 
Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a). The indictment alleged 
that Koziol “knowingly attempted to obtain property 
consisting of approximately $1,000,000 from victim 
Entertainer, with the victim Entertainer’s consent, induced 
by the wrongful use of fear, by thre atening to publish false 
criminal allegations against victim Entertainer by filing a 
public lawsuit, if the victim Entertainer refused to transfer 
$1,000,000 to defendant Koziol.” 
At trial, the prosecution called several witnesses, 
including the manager, the entertainer, and attorneys Wright 
and Hunter. On June 1, 2018, the jury found Koziol guilty 
of attempted extortion. At the close of the government’s 
case, and again after the verdict, Koziol moved for a 
judgment of acquittal pursuant to Federal Rule o f Criminal 
Procedure 29(c); the court reserved ruling on the trial motion 
and denied the post-trial motion. 
The district court sentenced Koziol to seventy months’ 
imprisonment to run consecutively to his California state 
conviction in an unrelated matter. Koziol filed a timely 
notice of appeal, see Fed. R. App. P. 4(b)(1), and we have 
jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1291. 
II. 
Koziol first argues that his conviction must be reversed 
because the threat of litigation, even when “frivolous, 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 11 

meritless, or made in bad faith,” can never constitute 
“wrongful” conduct under the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1951. 
Koziol made the same argument in hi s post-trial motion for 
acquittal, which the district court denied, concluding that 
Koziol’s “threatened litigation was entirely sham in nature 
and made for an improper purpose,” and thus “wrongful” 
under the Hobbs Act. 
When the denial of a motion for acquittal turns on the 
district court’s interpretation of a statute, we review the 
decision de novo. See United States v. Lo, 839 F.3d 777, 783 
(9th Cir. 2016). We conclude that there is no statutory, 
constitutional, or policy basis to support Koziol’s argum ent 
that threats of sham litigation are categorically excluded 
from criminal liability under the Hobbs Act.
4 Therefore, we 
reject Koziol’s argument and affirm the denial of his motion 
for acquittal. 
A. 
The Hobbs Act imposes criminal liability on those who 
“obstruct[], delay[], or affect[] commerce . . . by robbery or 
extortion.” 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a). Under the statute, 
“extortion” is defined as “the obtaining of property from 
another, with his consent, induced by wrongful use of actual 
or threatened forc e, violence, or fear, or under color of 
official right.” Id. § 1951(b)(2). Although Koziol correctly 
observes that the statute does not define “wrongful,” he fails 
to acknowledge that the term has been defined by the 

4 We have previously held that the Hobbs Act does not impose 
liability for threats of litigation that do not rise to the level of a sham. 
See Sosa v. DIRECTV, Inc., 437 F.3d 923, 939–40 (9th Cir. 2006). But 
we have not previously addressed whether the Hobbs Act applies to 
threats of sham litigation. In Section II.B, we address the definition of 
sham litigation and whether Koziol’s threats rise to that level. 
12 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

Supreme Court and this court. We conclude that the 
statutory interpretation of the term “wrongful,” as applied in 
our case law, extends to Koziol’s threat of sham litigation. 
1. 
We have stated that United States v. Enmons , 410 U.S. 
396 (1973), “is the starting point for the interpretation of 
‘wrongful’ in the extortion statute.” Levitt v. Yelp! Inc. , 
765 F.3d 1123, 1130 (9th Cir. 2014). In Enmons, the 
Supreme Court explained that obtaining property is 
“wrongful” under the Hobbs Act if “the alleged extortionist 
has no lawful claim to that property.” 410 U.S. at 400. 
There, the Court concluded that the use of threats of physical 
force or violence was not “wrongful” under the Hobbs Act 
because the defendants —officials and members in a labor 
union—sought “legitimate labor ends,” and thus, had a 
lawful claim to the things of value they demanded, including 
higher wages and benefits in return for genuine services.
5 Id. 
at 397–401. 
In United States v. Dischner, we applied this definition 
of “wrongful” to threats of economic loss and reiterated that 
“[o]btaining property is generally ‘wrongful’ if the alleged 
extortionist has no lawful claim to that property.”
6 974 F.2d 

5 In Enmons, the Court relied, in part, on the legislative framework 
of the Hobbs Act to conclude that it did not apply to the use of force to 
obtain “legitimate labor ends.” 410 U.S. at 401. 
6 Conversely, we have explained that threats of economic harm to 
obtain property are generally not considered “wrongful” when “the 
alleged extortioner has a legitimate claim to the property obtained 
through such threats.” Levitt, 765 F.3d at 1130 –31 (emphasis added) 
(citation omitted); see id. at 1131– 32 (“[W]here the defendant has a 
claim of right to property and exerts economic pressure to obtain that 

 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 13 

1502, 1516 (9th Cir. 1992) (citing Enmons, 410 U.S. at 400), 
overruled on other grounds by United States v. Morales , 
108 F.3d 1031 (9th Cir. 1997) (en banc). We determined 
that the defendants’ conduct was wrongful because the 
defendants had no lawful right to demand payments in the 
form of kickbacks and extortionate contracts. Id. at 1507–
08, 1515–18. Other circuits too have concluded that 
economic threats are “wrongful” under the Hobbs Act if the 
alleged extortionist does not have a lawful claim to the 
property demanded. See, e.g., United States v. Sturm , 870 
F.2d 769, 773 (1st Cir. 1989) (“We therefore hold that for 
purposes of the Hobbs Act, the use of legitimate economic 
threats to obtain property is wrongful only if the defendant 
has no claim of right to that property.” (footnotes omitted)); 
see also United States v. Tobin , 155 F.3d 636, 640–41 (3d 
Cir. 1998) (concluding tha t economic threats and other 
harassment were “within the purview of the Hobbs Act” 
because the victims “had a preexisting right to be free” from 
such threats). 
We have also addressed whether the means the defendant 
employed to demand the property may be th e basis for 
wrongfulness under the Hobbs Act. In United States v. 
Daane, we concluded that use of inherently wrongful means 
(e.g., physical violence outside the labor context) could 
support a Hobbs Act extortion charge regardless of whether 
the defendant had a claim to the property demanded. 
475 F.3d 1114, 1119–20 (9th Cir. 2007). And in United 
States v. Villalobos, we held that even nonviolent means that 
are not inherently wrongful could support an extortion 
charge if they were wrongful under the circum stances. 

property, that conduct is not extortion and no violation of the Hobbs Act 
has occurred.” (quoting Rennell v. Rowe, 635 F.3d 1008, 1011, 1012 (7th 
Cir. 2011); other citation omitted)). 
14 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

748 F.3d 953, 957–58 (9th Cir. 2014) (concluding that a 
lawyer’s threats that his client would “cooperate with, or 
alternatively impede,” an ongoing investigation depending 
upon whether the extortion victim paid him were unlawful 
(i.e., endeavoring to obstruct justice), and therefore wrongful 
under the circumstances). 
We have described this as a “means -ends framework,” 
which recognizes “that certain ‘means’ to obtain property are 
‘wrongful’ under the Hobbs Act without regard to the ‘ends’ 
sought by the defendant.” Id. at 957 (citing Daane, 475 F.3d 
at 1119–20). We noted that the First Circuit adopted a 
similar approach in Sturm, where it reasoned “that extortion 
cases based on force or violence generally involve wrongful 
‘means,’ while extortion cases based on economic fear 
typically involve only allegations of wrongful ‘ends’ (i.e. the 
defendant does not have a lawful claim to the property 
demanded).” Id. at 957 n.3 (quoting Sturm, 870 F.2d at 773). 
Therefore, we must consider whether the means Koziol used 
in his attempt to obtain the property (threats of sham 
litigation) were wrongful under the circumstances,
7 or 
whether the ends were wrongful because he had no lawful 
claim to the property he demanded. 

7 Because Villalobos requires that we examine the circumstances to 
determine whether the means used to obtain property are wrongful, even 
when nonviolent means that are not inherently wrongful are employed, 
748 F.3d at 956–57, we necessarily reject Koziol’s argument that threats 
of sham litigation are categorically excluded from the term “wrongful” 
under the Hobbs Act. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 15 

2. 
The government alleged that, after initially asserting the 
same claims against the manager, 8 Koziol threatened to file 
a lawsuit publicizing baseless allegations that could damage 
the entertainer’s reputation and livelihood in an attempt to 
extort $1,000,000 from the entertainer. The governm ent 
asserted that Koziol used falsified evidence to show his 
alleged injuries and that he lied about the existence of other 
evidence to support his claims. The government also alleged 
that Koziol knew that his allegations against the entertainer 
were fals e and that he did not have a lawful claim to the 
property he demanded. The government’s allegations, if 
supported by sufficient evidence,
9 establish that Koziol 
knew he had no lawful claim to the property he demanded. 
See Tobin, 155 F.3d at 640–41 (concluding that defendant 
“did not have the right to seek to enforce her alleged oral 
contract through a campaign of telephone terrorism,” that 
included—among other things—threats of litigation alleging 
sexual harassment against the extortion victim and that her 
actions were “within the purview of the Hobbs Act”). 
We conclude that the circumstances alleged in this case 
establish that Koziol’s conduct went far beyond threatening 
to file a lawsuit based on weak claims and that it fell well 
outside the bounds of legitimate pre -litigation settlement 

8 After the manager negotiated a settlement with Sweet, Koziol 
accused the manager of physically and verbally assaulting him on the 
night of the massage. Koziol did not mention the entertainer in these 
allegations. T he manager’s attorney refused any attempts to extract 
additional money from her client, and Koziol later changed his story to 
accuse the entertainer. 
9 We address Koziol’s challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence 
to support his conviction in Section III. 
16 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

demands. Following Enmons and Dischner, we hold that 
threats of sham litigation, which are made to obtain property 
to which t he defendant knows he has no lawful claim, are 
“wrongful” under the Hobbs Act. 10 Applying the “means -
ends framework” of Villalobos, we need not decide whether 
the means that Koziol employed in his threats (baseless 
threats of sham litigation using falsified evidence and deceit) 
were “wrongful” under the Hobbs Act because he sought to 
obtain money to which he knew he had no lawful claim and, 
thus, the ends were “wrongful.” See Villalobos , 748 F.3d 
at 956–57 & n.3. We therefore conclude that Koziol’s 
threats of sham litigation were “wrongful” under the Hobbs 
Act. 
B. 
Koziol also argues that, even if we do not accept his 
argument that threats of sham litigation can never establish 
liability under the Hobbs Act, we should nonetheless vacate 
his conviction because his threatened litigation did not rise 

10 In Sturm, the First Circuit held that the term “wrongful” in the 
Hobbs Act “requires the government to prove, in cases in volving 
extortion based on economic fear, that the defendant knew that he was 
not legally entitled to the property that he received.” 870 F.2d at 774. 
But we have not yet imposed this requirement. See United States v. 
Greer, 640 F.3d 1011, 1019 n.4 (9th Cir. 2011) ( “Because the district 
court’s instructions satisfied the First Circuit’s requirement in Sturm, we 
need not decide whether to adopt Sturm as the law of this circuit.” 
(citation omitted)); Dischner, 974 F.2d at 1515 ( “[W]e need not decide 
whether the government must prove that the defendant knew he had no 
entitlement.”). In this case, the district court instructed the jury that a 
threat is “wrongful” under the Hobbs Act “if the defendant knew he was 
not entitled to obtain the property,” and the parties do not dispute this 
knowledge requirement. Therefore, we do not decide whether the Hobbs 
Act imposes liability absent proof that the defendant knew he was not 
entitled to the property. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 17 

to the level of a sham and should thus be immune from 
liability. Koziol bases this argument on the Noerr -
Pennington doctrine, which is a rule of statutory 
construction that requires courts to construe statutes to avoid 
burdening conduct that implicates the protections of the 
Petition Clause of the First Amendment.
11 See Sosa v. 
DIRECTV, Inc., 437 F.3d 923, 931–32 (9th Cir. 2006). The 
Petition Clause protects “the right of the people . . . to 
petition the government for a redress of grievances,” id. 
at 929 (quoting U.S. Const. am end. I), and “[u]nder the 
Noerr-Pennington doctrine, those who petition any 
department of the government for redress are generally 
immune from statutory liability for their petitioning 
conduct,” id. (citation omitted). 
The constitutional right to petition includes the right of 
access to the courts and therefore most litigation activities 
(including pre-suit demands) are immunized from statutory 
liability. Id. at 929, 933–36. However, “neither the Petition 
Clause nor the Noerr-Pennington doctrine protects sham 
petitions, and statutes need not be construed to permit them.” 
Id. at 932. Indeed, the “established sham exception . . . 
provides . . . protection against baseless claims asserted in 
prelitigation settlement letters.” Id. at 936 (citing Pro. Real 
Est. Invs., Inc. v. Columbia Pictures Indus., Inc., 508 U.S. 
49, 60–61 (1993); other citation omitted). 

11 “The Noerr-Pennington doctrine arose in the antitrust context and 
initially reflected the Supreme Court’s effort to reconcile the Sherman 
Act with the First Amendment Petition Clause.” Sosa , 437 F.3d at 929 
(discussing E. R.R. Presidents Conf . v. Noerr Motor Freight, Inc ., 
365 U.S. 127 (1961); United Mine Workers v. Pennington, 381 U.S. 657 
(1965)). The Court has since applied this doctrine “outside the antitrust 
field.” Id. at 930. 
18 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

Litigation is a sham “where the lawsuit is objectively 
baseless and the defendant’s motive in bringing it was 
unlawful.” Id. at 938 (citing Kottle v. Nw. Kidney Ctrs. , 
146 F.3d 1056, 1060 (9th Cir. 1998)). A lawsuit is 
objectively baseless where “no reasonable litigant could 
realistically expect success on the merits.” Pro. Real Est. 
Invs., 508 U.S. at 60. If this first prong of the sham exception 
(objective baselessness) is satisfied, then the court must 
determine whether the defendant had an improper motive. 
See Rock River Commc’ns, Inc. v. Universal Music Grp., 
Inc., 745 F.3d 343, 352–53 (9th Cir. 2014). “[R]equiring 
both objective baselessness and an improper motive . . . 
overprotects baseless petitions so as to ensure citizens may 
enjoy the right of access to the courts without fear of 
prosecution.” Sosa, 437 F.3d at 934 (citation omitted). 
Koziol acknowledges that the Noerr- Pennington 
doctrine does not protect sham litigation activities, including 
threats of sham litigation. However, he argues that the sham 
exception does not apply to his litigation threats because he 
was not acting with an improper motive; instead, he sought 
“the outcome of a successful lawsuit []—a cash settlement.” 
But as the government notes, despite several threats to file a 
lawsuit against the entertainer, Koziol never filed his suit. 
Koziol’s failure to file the threatened lawsuit supports the 
second prong of the sham ex ception (improper motive) 
because it provides evidence from which a reasonable jury 
could conclude that Koziol hoped to enforce his claim 
“through the threat of litigation rather than through actual 
litigation,” and therefore sought to achieve his “aim[s] 
through the litigation process rather than through the result 
of that process.”
12 See Rock River Commc’ns, 745 F.3d 

12 We are not suggesting that by filing his threatened sham 
complaint, Koziol could have automatically prevented the government 

 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 19 

at 353 (citation omitted) (concluding that a reasonable jury 
could find that the second prong of sham exception was met 
where defendant sen t cease- and-desist letters but failed to 
initiate litigation, which suggested defendant hoped to 
enforce its claim through the threat of litigation rather than 
actual litigation). 
Koziol attempts to distinguish Rock River 
Communications by arguing that he did not file a lawsuit 
because the entertainer’s attorneys threatened him with 
criminal and civil liability. Koziol points to a November 10, 
2017 letter from Neils, but on November 27, 2017, Koziol 
responded to that letter and, apparently undeterred, repeated 
his threats to file suit “within the next few days” unless the 
entertainer agreed to settle. And Koziol responded to earlier 
threats of legal action from another of the entertainer’s 
attorneys (Hunter) by stating that such threats “d[id] not 
intimidate or deter [him] at all” because he had “no money 
or assets to go after.” Thus, the jury could reasonably 
conclude that Koziol was not intimidated by the attorneys’ 
threats of liability and that those threats do not explain his 
failure to file his lawsuit. See Rock River Commc’ns, 

from proving improper motive. Indeed, extortionists are not free simply 
to file a complaint and thus don the protective mantle of Noerr -
Pennington immunity. See Kottle, 146 F.3d at 1060 (holding that 
“litigation can be deemed a sham if ‘a party’s knowing fraud upon, or its 
intentional misrepresentations to, the court deprive the litigation of its 
legitimacy’” (quoting Liberty Lake Invs., Inc. v. Magnuson, 12 F.3d 155, 
158 (9th Cir. 1993); other citation omitted)). Koziol’s falsified evidence, 
if included in a filed complaint or otherwise submitted to the court, 
would certainly qualify as intentional misrepresentations to the court. 
And even if Koziol had filed a complaint omitting the falsified evidence, 
the incongruity between his settlement demands and the complaint 
would be probative evidence of sham litigation as well, especially when 
considered with the evidence that Koziol kne w he had no lawful claim 
to the settlement he demanded, as discussed below. 
20 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

745 F.3d at 352–53 (explaining that whether the sham 
exception to the Noerr -Pennington doctrine applies is a 
question of fact). 
Indeed, as discussed more fully below, Koziol fabricated 
evidence, lied about the existence of evidence, and knew that 
his claims were baseless, all of which further demonstrates 
that his threats to file a lawsuit were made with an improper 
motive. From this evidence, we conclude that Koziol knew 
that his threatened lawsuit could never prove fruitful if 
brought before a jury, which is why he attempted to 
intimidate the entertainer into a settlement based on 
admittedly falsified evidence and an implied threat that 
scandalous allegations in a publicly filed lawsuit would 
irrevocably da mage the entertainer’s reputation and 
livelihood. 
Therefore, we reject Koziol’s argument that his litigation 
threats did not rise to the level of a sham as a matter of law 
and conclude that the Noerr-Pennington doctrine did not 
immunize Koziol’s threats of sham litigation. 
C. 
Finally, Koziol argues that “a passing comment,” in one 
of our cases, First Pacific Bancorp, Inc. v. Bro, 847 F.2d 
542, 547 (9th Cir. 1988), which he characterizes as 
“dictum,” and statements in cases from other circuits 
establish that threats of sham litigation can never constitute 
“wrongful” conduct under the Hobbs Act. However, our 
review of these cases establishes that they do not support the 
broad proposition that threats of sham litigation should be 
categorically excluded from cr iminal liability under the 
Hobbs Act, and that they are distinguishable and therefore 
not persuasive in this case. We first address Koziol’s 
characterization of our decision in First Pacific Bancorp , 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 21 

which is binding precedent in this court, and then we 
consider his reliance on non- binding decisions from other 
circuits. 
1. 
In First Pacific Bancorp, a bank brought a claim under 
§ 1964 of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 
Organizations Act (RICO), 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961–1968,
against its shareholders who had solicited proxies in favor of 
an alternative slate of candidates for the board of directors 
and had taken steps to initiate a shareholders’ derivative suit. 
847 F.2d at 543–44. The shareholders delivered a draft 
complaint to the bank’s board of director s, but they did not 
file or serve the complaint and they did not make any 
statements to obtain money or property from the bank during 
the proxy solicitation. Id. at 544. On appeal, we affirmed 
the district court’s entry of summary judgment in favor of 
the shareholders and rejected the bank’s claims that the 
proposed shareholder derivative suit and alleged threats to a 
bank director were acts of extortion under RICO. Id. at 547. 
We concluded that because the proposed suit was “not a 
catalyst for any corpo rate action,” it therefore was not an 

13 RICO addresses “racketeering activity,” which it defines to 
“encompass dozens of state and federal offenses, known in RICO 
parlance as predicates.” RJR Nabisco, Inc. v. Eur. Cmt y., 136 S. Ct. 
2090, 2096 (2016). “A predicate offense implicates RICO when it is part 
of a ‘pattern of racketeering activity’—a series of related predicates that 
together demonstrate the existence or threat of continued criminal 
activity.” Id. at 2096–97. In § 1962, RICO prohibits certain activities in 
relation to an enterprise. Id. at 2096. Section 1964(c) “create[d] a private 
civil cause of action that allows ‘[a]ny person injured in his business or 
property by reason of a violation of section 1962’ to sue in federal district 
court and recover treble damages, costs, and attorney’s fees.” Id. at 2097 
(second alteration in original) (quoting § 1964(c)). 
22 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

extortionate act and did not otherwise qualify as a predicate 
offense under RICO. Id. We also determined that the 
alleged threats were insufficient because “[e]xtortion by 
threat requires ‘fear,’” but the bank did no t claim that the 
alleged threats caused fear and did not identify any corporate 
action that the imposition of fear might have been intended 
to compel. Id. (citing I.S. Joseph Co. v. J. Lauritzen A/S, 
751 F.2d 265, 267 (8th Cir. 1984)). “Absent such support, 
the allegation of extortion collapses.” Id. Thus, we rejected 
the bank’s civil RICO claims because the bank’s allegations 
of extortion were insufficient. We did not make any broad 
or general statements that threats of litigation, even threats 
of sha m litigation, can never establish criminal liability 
under the Hobbs Act. 
Koziol asserts that other circuits have read First Pacific 
Bancorp “as adopting the more general proposition that no 
threat of litigation, regardless of merit or bad faith, is 
extortion.” But even if we accept Koziol’s characterization 
of these cases, the conclusion that threats of sham litigation 
can never amount to extortion is simply not supported by our 
decision in First Pacific Bancorp. 
2. 
Perhaps recognizing that our decision i n First Pacific 
Bancorp does not support his argument, Koziol relies 
primarily on cases from other circuits to argue that threats of 
sham litigation can never constitute “wrongful” conduct 
under the Hobbs Act. Koziol cites Kim v. Kimm, 884 F.3d 
98, 104–05 (2d Cir. 2018); Snow Ingredients, Inc. v. 
SnoWizard, Inc., 833 F.3d 512, 525 (5th Cir. 2016); Deck v. 
Engineered Laminates , 349 F.3d 1253, 1258 (10th Cir. 
2003); United States v. Pendergraft , 297 F.3d 1198, 1205–
08 (11th Cir. 2002); Vemco, Inc. v. Camardella, 23 F.3d 129, 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 23 

134 (6th Cir. 1994); and I.S. Joseph Co., 751 F.2d at 267–
68. 
Setting aside Pendergraft momentarily, all these cases 
involve civil RICO claims and parties involved in business 
disputes who had been or were at that time involved in 
litigation apart from the civil RICO suit. See Kim, 884 F.3d 
at 100–01; Snow, 833 F.3d at 518 –20; Deck, 349 F.3d 
at 1256, 1258; Vemco , 23 F.3d at 132–33; I.S. Joseph Co., 
751 F.2d at 266–67. There are significant differences 
between these cases, dealing with civil RICO claims, and the 
criminal charges at issue in this case. As the Supreme Court 
has explained: “The creation of a private right of action 
raises issues beyond the mere consideration whether 
underlying primary conduct should be allowed or not, 
entailing, for example, a decision to permit enforcement 
without the check imposed by prosecutorial discretion.” 
RJR Nabisco, Inc. v. Eur. Cmty., 136 S. Ct. 2090, 2106 
(2016) (citation omitted). 
Indeed, in these cases the courts concluded that RICO 
does not authorize suits by private parties asserting claims 
against business or litigation adversaries, based on litigation 
activities, and seeking treble damages, costs, and attorneys’ 
fees. See Kim, 884 F.3d at 104 (“‘[I]f litigation activity were 
adequate to state a claim under RICO, every unsuccessful 
lawsuit could spawn a retaliatory action,’ which ‘would 
inundate the federal courts with procedurally complex RICO 
pleadings.’” (citations omitted)); Snow, 833 F.3d at 525 
(explaining that litigation tactics cannot be a predicate for a 
civil RICO claim); Deck, 349 F.3d at 1258 (“[R]ecognizing 
abusive litigation as a form of extortion would subject 
almost any unsuccessful lawsuit to a colorable extortion (and 
often a RICO) claim.”); see also Vemco, Inc., 23 F.3d at 134; 
I.S. Joseph Co., 751 F.2d at 267. 
24 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

In rejecting RICO liability based on litigation activities, 
these courts expressed policy concerns relating to ensuring 
access to the courts, promoting finality, and avoiding 
collateral litigation. See K im, 884 F.3d at 104 (explaining 
that permitting RICO suits based on prior litigation activities 
would “engender wasteful satellite litigation,” “erode the 
principles undergirding the doctrines of res judicata and 
collateral estoppel,” and “chill litigants and lawyers and 
frustrate the well -established public policy goal of 
maintaining open access to the courts” because “pleading[s] 
and correspondence in an unsuccessful lawsuit could lead to 
drastic RICO liability” (citations omitted)); see also Snow , 
833 F.3d at 525; Deck, 349 F.3d at 1258; I.S. Joseph Co., 
751 F.2d at 267. 
These cases turn on the scope of civil liability under 
RICO and related policy concerns, but they do not address 
the issue presented in this case: whether threats of sham 
litigation can establish criminal liability under the Hobbs 
Act. Furthermore, the policy concerns asserted in these 
cases are not implicated when a defendant, who has no 
relationship with his alleged extortion victim, including any 
prior or pending litigation, threatens sham litigation to obtain 
property to which he knows he has no lawful claim. See 
Rickards v. Canine Eye Registration Found., 783 F.2d 1329, 
1334 (9th Cir. 1986) (“This kind of litigation deserves all the 
chilling effect the law allows.”). Therefore, we reject 
Koziol’s argument that these civil RICO cases from other 
circuits establish that threats of sham litigation can never 
constitute extortion under the Hobbs Act. 
Similarly, Pendergraft turned on policy considerations 
that do not apply in this case. In Pendergraft, the defendants 
were convicted of attempted extortion in violation of the 
Hobbs Act (as well as several other offenses) based on 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 25 

threats to amend their complaint in a pending civil suit to add 
a claim for damages against a county government, and based 
on their filing of sworn declarations with false statements. 
297 F.3d at 1200–02. The defendants argued to the Eleventh 
Circuit, in part, that a threat to file a lawsuit could never 
amount to extortion. Id. at 1204. The court vacated the 
conviction after reaching a “narrow” holding that this threat 
of suit against a county government was not wrongful, even 
if made in bad faith and supported by false affidavits. Id. 
at 1208. 
Like the courts addressing the civil RICO claims, the 
Eleventh Circui t’s reasoning in Pendergraft was based on 
policy concerns related to access to the courts. Id. at 1206. 
The court stated that “[a] threat to litigate, by itself, is not 
necessarily ‘wrongful’ within the meaning of the Hobbs 
Act.” Id. And it noted that our legal system encourages 
parties “to resort to courts for the redress of wrongs and the 
enforcement of rights.” Id. (citations omitted). The court 
then addressed the fabrication of evidence (filing sworn 
affidavits with false information in the underlying civil case) 
and stated that “the rigors of cross -examination and the 
penalty of perjury sufficiently protect the reliability of 
witnesses.” Id. at 1207 (citations omitted). 
Therefore, the court concluded that “[c]riminalizing 
false testimony via the Hobbs Act would expand the scope 
of witness liability,” which the court described as 
“unsettling” because it did “not believe that Congress 
intended to expand the scope of witness liability in this 
way.”
14 Id. Thus, like the civil RICO cases, the court i n 

14 One of the defendants was convicted of perjury and making false 
statements to the FBI and on appeal those convictions were affirmed. 
Pendergraft, 297 F.3d at 1200. 
26 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

Pendergraft noted its concern that “[a]llowing litigants to be 
charged with extortion would open yet another collateral 
way for litigants to attack one another. The reality is that 
litigating parties often accuse each other of bad faith. The 
prospect of such civil cases ending as criminal prosecutions 
gives us pause.” Id. 
But as we previously explained, these policy concerns—
promoting access to the courts and avoiding collateral 
litigation—are not implicated by threats of sham litigation.
Therefore, we conclude that neither the narrow holding of 
Pendergraft nor its reasoning apply to the situation presented 
here—liability for extortion under the Hobbs Act that is not 
based on litigation tactics or activities in prior or continuing 
civil litigation, b ut instead is based on a threat of sham 
litigation to obtain property to which the defendant knows 
he has no lawful claim. 
Even if we were to read Pendergraft as Koziol urges, we 
would conclude that the decision in that case must be viewed 
as an outlier and not in accord with other criminal cases 
under the Hobbs Act. See United States v. Cuya, 724 F. 
App’x 720, 724 (11th Cir. 2018) (per curiam) (distinguishing 
Pendergraft and concluding that “threats of bogus lawsuits” 
and “settlement” demands—predicated on a demand for 

15 These cases also suggest that the victim of bad faith litigation 
tactics may have remedies and protections in state tort law through 
claims of malicious prosecution, wrongful use of civil proceedings, and 
abuse of process, and that wrongful litigation conduct will be deterred 
by the penalties for perjury, obstruction of justice, and witness 
tampering. See Snow, 833 F.3d at 525; Pendergraft, 297 F.3d at 1207–
08; I.S. Joseph Co., 751 F.2d at 267 . But these remedies and penalties 
will rarely, if ever, protect the victim of extortionate threats of sham 
litigation when, as in this case, the sham lawsuit is th reatened but not 
filed. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 27 

payment of late fees for purchase orders the defendant 
fabricated—were “wrongful” under the Hobbs Act); 16 
Tobin, 155 F.3d at 640–41 (affirming conviction for 
extortion under the Hobbs Act based, in part, on threats to 
file an unrelated and false lawsuit alleging sexual harassment 
in an attempt to enforce an alleged oral contract); Sturm , 
870 F.2d at 774 (concluding that extortion under the Hobbs 
Act requires the government to prove the defendant knew he 
was not legally entitled to the demanded property and using 
the example of a good faith threat of litigation to explain that, 
in the absence of such knowledge, it would be unjust to 
convict a defendant of ex tortion). Therefore, we reject 
Koziol’s argument that these cases from other circuits 
establish that threats of sham litigation cannot constitute 
extortion under the Hobbs Act. 
D. 
After reviewing the plain language of the statute, the case 
law interpreting the term “wrongful,” and the reasoning of 
other courts, we hold that threats of sham litigation are not 
categorically excluded from criminal liability for extortion 
under the Hobbs Act. Nor are such threats immunized by 
the Noerr-Pennington doctrine. See Sosa, 437 F.3d at 932. 
Instead, we must consider the circumstances of such threats 
to determine whether the defendant used wrongful means or 

16 Although Cuya is an unpublished decision, it is notable because 
the Eleventh Circuit concluded that threats of sham litigation, which 
were very similar to the threats in this case, were “wrongful” and 
extortionate under the Hobbs Act. 724 F. App’x at 724. The court 
rejected the defendant’s argument, based on Pendergraft, that threats of 
litigation are legally insufficient to support his conviction and concluded 
that its earlier decision in Pendergraft “[did] not apply.” Id. 
28 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

whether he sought to obtain property to which he knew he 
had no lawful claim and, thus, the ends were wrongful. 
In this case, Koziol’s threats of sham litigation —in 
which he produced falsified evidence and lied about the 
existence of evidence, initially targeted another victim with 
the same threats, and knew he had no lawful claim against 
his victim —sought “wrongf ul” ends and thus were within 
the scope of Hobbs Act. Therefore, we conclude that the 
district court correctly denied Koziol’s motion for acquittal. 
III. 
Koziol also argues that, even if the threat of sham 
litigation can constitute “wrongful” conduct unde r the 
Hobbs Act, the evidence was insufficient to support his 
conviction for extortion under § 1951(a). Although Koziol 
conceded at trial that the entertainer was not the massage 
customer and was not present during the incident at issue, he 
argues that no rational jury could have found that he knew 
that the entertainer was not the massage customer and, thus, 
that he knew he had no lawful claim to the money he 
demanded from the entertainer. 
When reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence, we ask 
whether, “af ter viewing the evidence in the light most 
favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could 
have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a 
reasonable doubt.” United States v. Nevils, 598 F.3d 1158, 
1163–64 (9th Cir. 2010) (en banc) (quoting Jackson v. 
Virginia, 443 U.S. 307, 319 (1979); other citation omitted). 
When the evidence presents “conflicting inferences,” we 
“must presume . . . that the trier of fact resolved any such 
conflicts in favor of the prosecution, and [we] must defer to 
that resolution.” Id. at 1164 (quoting Jackson , 443 U.S. 
at 326; other citation omitted). 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 29 

Here, there was ample evidence at trial from which a 
rational jury could conclude that Koziol knew his allegations 
were baseless and that he had no right to obtain any money 
from the entertainer. As an initial matter, the uncontested 
evidence at trial established that it was the manager, not the 
entertainer, who was present at Sweet’s apartment on the 
night of the massage. Several months after the manage r 
negotiated a settlement with Koziol’s wife, Sweet, Koziol 
accused the manager of “verbally and physically” assaulting 
him, even though Koziol was not mentioned in the detailed 
demand letter that Saadian, Sweet’s attorney, previously sent 
to Wright, the manager’s attorney. When Koziol made these 
allegations against the manager, Koziol was aware that the 
manager had settled with Sweet and he claimed that Saadian 
had also represented him. After Wright refused any attempts 
to extract additional money from her client, Koziol changed 
his story to accuse the entertainer. He later falsely claimed 
that he had “never accused [the manager] of anything!” And 
in his threats to sue the entertainer, Koziol contradicted his 
earlier allegations and stated that the manager “was never at 
my apartment and has nothing to do with this case.” 
Moreover, the uncontested evidence also established the 
entertainer had never even met Koziol or Sweet. 
Nonetheless, despite his earlier claims that the manager was 
the massage customer who assaulted him, Koziol changed 
his story and claimed that he confronted the entertainer at the 
apartment on the night of the massage and spoke to him, 
asserted that “by the look on [the entertainer’s] face” he was 
“obviously surprised to see” Koziol, a nd accused the 
entertainer of punching him in the face and knocking him 
unconscious. Koziol also claimed that he “immediately 
recognized” the entertainer when he searched for him on the 
internet. From this evidence, a rational jury could find that 
Koziol knew that the manager, not the entertainer, was the 
30 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

massage customer and that Koziol knew he did not have a 
claim against the entertainer. 
Koziol also used falsified evidence (the photograph of 
his purported injuries) to bolster his threats against the 
entertainer, he lied about the existence of evidence that 
supported his claims (the video that purportedly showed the 
entertainer at Sweet’s apartment the night of the massage). 
And in the demand letter that Koziol’s wife sent to the 
manager through her attorney, she also claimed that she had 
a video showing the massage customer at the apartment —
but stated that the video showed the manager at the 
apartment. Again, from this evidence, a rational jury could 
conclude that Koziol knew he had no lawful claim aga inst 
the entertainer. 
In addition, Koziol asserted to the entertainer’s attorney 
that he had “plenty of evidence and a witness to prove [his] 
allegations” and that he would “be calling [his] wife to 
testify.” Yet Koziol sought to keep Sweet from talking about 
the incident, even though she was one of the entertainer’s 
alleged victims and Koziol’s only witness. The jury heard a 
post-arrest recording in which Koziol asked someone to tell 
Sweet “not to talk to anybody, and make sure she’s not 
talking over the phone” as she “can really f[ ---] me in 
anything she says, I don’t think she realizes anything she 
says can.” A rational jury could conclude that this evidence 
established that Koziol believed Sweet’s statements would 
contradict his claims and reveal that he knew he had no 
lawful claim against the entertainer. The jury could have 
also inferred that Koziol’s failure to file suit despite his 
assertion that he had “plenty of evidence” indicated that he 
knew he had no legitimate claim against the entertainer. 
Finally, Koziol refused to meet with the manager’s 
attorney in person, and he refused to speak with the 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 31 

entertainer’s attorneys on the telephone. He communicated 
with the entertainer’s attorneys through an email address and 
phone that he had obtained fou r days before he first 
threatened to sue the entertainer. The phone number that 
Koziol provided to the entertainer’s attorneys was registered 
to “John Doe” and was associated with a non -existent 
address. From this evidence, a rational jury could conclude 
that Koziol was trying to make it difficult to locate him 
because he knew his allegations against entertainer were 
baseless and he was acting in bad faith. 
Koziol, in contrast, contends that the evidence at trial, 
even in the light most favorable to the government, 
precluded the jury from finding that he did not honestly 
believe that the entertainer attacked him. He argues that: 
(1) the initial voicemail from Sweet’s attorney to the 
manager, left four days after the January 2016 massage, 
referenced the entertainer, rather than the manager, and 
Sweet’s attorney sent a subsequent email addressed to the 
entertainer, thus establishing that Koziol and Sweet believed 
the entertainer to be the perpetrator from the start; (2) the 
settlement with the manager was n egotiated quickly with 
minimal resistance, and it included the entertainer in the list 
of released individuals, suggesting a cover -up; (3) Koziol’s 
later demands through his attorney referenced the 
entertainer, rather than the manager; and (4) Koziol’s claim 
that he had a video showing the entertainer at the apartment 
made sense only if he truly believed that the entertainer was 
the individual at the apartment. 
But Koziol’s arguments ignore the requirement that this 
court construe the evidence in the light most favorable to the 
government. First, even if the evidence would support the 
conclusion that Koziol and Sweet initially believed that the 
entertainer was the massage customer, the evidence also 
32 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

established that Sweet entered into a substantial settlement 
with the manager, and Koziol alleged that the manager 
assaulted him. Therefore, a rational jury could conclude that 
even if Sweet and Koziol initially believed that the 
entertainer was the massage customer, they learned that it 
was the manager long bef ore making the same allegations 
against the entertainer. 
Second, while a rational jury could conceivably interpret 
the manager’s quick settlement and the release of claims 
against the entertainer to indicate a cover-up, we must again 
view the evidence in t he light most favorable to the 
government. In that light, a rational jury could accept the 
manager’s testimony that the settlement reflected “a 
business decision” to avoid ruining his own career, and that 
the settlement included a release of any claims ag ainst the 
entertainer because the initial communications from Sweet’s 
attorney referred to the entertainer and the manager wanted 
to prevent any further false accusations against his client, the 
entertainer. 
Third, although Koziol’s later demands all referenced the 
entertainer rather than the manager, he made those demands 
only after accusing the manager of assaulting him and only 
after the manager’s attorney rejected Koziol’s attempts to 
obtain a second settlement for claims related to the January 
2016 massage. Thus, viewing this evidence in the light most 
favorable to the government, a rational jury could conclude 
that after Koziol’s attempts to extract a second settlement 
from the manager failed, he changed his story and targeted 
the entertainer, demonstrating that he knew his claim against 
the entertainer was baseless. 
Finally, a rational jury could conclude that Koziol’s false 
claim that he had a video of the entertainer at the apartment 
the night of the massage did not establish that Koziol 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 33 

believed the entertainer was the massage customer. Instead, 
this evidence could rationally show that —as Koziol’s 
attorney argued with respect to the falsified photograph—
Koziol’s bluffs were simply “very unsophisticated.” In the 
light most favorable to the government, a rational jury could 
conclude that Koziol was just not very adept in his extortion 
attempts, rather than inferring that Koziol must have 
believed that the entertainer was the massage customer. 
In sum, when viewed in the light most favorable to the 
government, the evidence was more than sufficient for the 
jury to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that Koziol 
knew his claims against the entertainer were baseless and 
that he had no right to demand money from the entertainer. 
Therefore, we conclude that the evidence was sufficient to 
support Koziol’s conviction. 
IV. 
Koziol also argues that the district court erred in 
instructing the jury. We “review the formulation of jury 
instructions for abuse of discretion, but review de novo 
whether those instructions correctly state the elements of the 
offense and adequately cover the defendant’s theory of the 
case.” United States v. Liew, 856 F.3d 585, 595–96 (9th Cir. 
2017) (citing Peralta v. Dillard , 744 F.3d 1076, 1082 (9th 
Cir. 2014) (en banc)). Thus, we must determine “whether 
the instructions as a whole are misleading or inadequate to 
guide the jury’s deliberation.” Id. at 596 (quoting United 
States v. Hofus, 598 F.3d 1171, 1174 (9th Cir. 2010)). 
A party must state with adequate specificity his grounds 
for an objection to an instruction. Fed. R. Crim. P. 30(d); 
Hofus, 598 F.3d at 1175. When the defendant fails to request 
an instruction or fails to offer an objection to a proposed 
instruction, we review only for plain error. Hofus, 598 F.3d 
34 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

at 1175; United States v. Conti, 804 F.3d 977, 981 (9th Cir. 
2015). “Under the plain error standard, relief is warranted 
where the district court committed (1) error that (2) is plain; 
(3) ‘affected substantial rights;’ and (4) ‘seriously affected 
the fairness, integrity , or public reputation of judicial 
proceedings.’” United States v. Vargem, 747 F.3d 724, 728 
(9th Cir. 2014) (quoting United States v. Teague , 722 F.3d 
1187, 1190 (9th Cir. 2013)). Where a party objects and the 
instructions were in fact erroneous, we will affirm only if the 
error was “harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.” Villalobos, 
748 F.3d at 957 (citation omitted). 
Koziol argues that the court erroneously instructed the 
jury on the meaning of “wrongful” under the Hobbs Act by 
not requiring the jury to find the two prongs of the sham 
litigation exception to the Noerr- Pennington doctrine. He 
also argues that the district court erroneously instructed the 
jury that the Hobbs Act criminalizes “wrongful” threats of 
reputational harm. Because Koziol did not object to the 
instructions on the first basis, we review the challenged 
instruction for plain error and conclude there was none. 
Although Koziol did object to the instructions on the second 
basis, we conclude that any error was harmless. Thus, we 
reject Koziol’s instructional error arguments. 
A. 
The district court instructed the jury, in relevant part, that 
for the defendant to be found guilty of attempted extortion 
in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a), the government must 
prove that “the defendant intended to induce [the entertainer] 
to part with property by wrongful threat of economic or 
reputational harm.” The court further instructed the jury that 
“[a] threat is wrongful if it is unlawful or if the defendant 
knew he was not entitled to obtain the property.” 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 35 

Koziol argues the court erroneously failed to instruct the 
jury that, to find a threat of litigation to be “wrongful,” it 
must find the requirements of the sham litigation exception 
to the Noerr-Pennington doctrine—i.e., that the lawsuit was 
(1) objectively baseless and (2) asserted with an improper 
motive. He also argues that this instruction was erroneous 
because the district court did not define “unlawful.” 
Although Koziol proposed an instruction removing the 
term “unlawful,” he did not argue tha t, if that term were 
included, the district court should define it, nor did he object 
that the instruction failed to require the jury to find the 
requirements of sham litigation. Accordingly, we review for 
plain error. See United States v. Peterson , 538 F.3d 1064, 
1071 (9th Cir. 2008) (“A defendant’s mere proposal of an 
alternate instruction does not satisfy Rule 30’s standard of 
specificity.” (citations omitted)). 
Koziol argues that the instruction did not require the jury 
to find the first prong of the sham litigation exception—that 
his claim was objectively baseless— because it allowed the 
jury to find that his litigation threat was wrongful if it was 
“unlawful,” and therefore the jury could find him guilty even 
if Koziol believed he had a lawful claim. Koziol also argues 
that the instruction did not require that the jury find the 
second prong of the sham litigation exception —improper 
motive—because it required only that he knew he was not 
entitled to obtain money from the entertainer, “which is 
comparable to the requirement that the lawsuit be 
‘objectively baseless,’” but “[i]t said nothing about the 
additional requirement of an improper collateral purpose.” 
As an initia l matter, we note that Koziol’s arguments 
appear to confuse the objective and subjective prongs of the 
sham litigation exception. In both arguments, Koziol asserts 
that whether his claim against the entertainer was 
36 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

“objectively baseless” turns on whether he knew he had no 
claim against the entertainer. Thus, Koziol appears to argue 
that a subjective standard applies to determine whether a 
claim is “objectively baseless.” But the Supreme Court has 
explained that a lawsuit is objectively baseless where “no 
reasonable litigant could realistically expect success on the 
merits.” Pro. Real Est. Invs., 508 U.S. at 60. Thus, contrary 
to Koziol’s arguments, the first prong of the sham litigation 
exception is determined by the objective standard of a 
reasonable litigant, not Koziol’s subjective belief. 
Nonetheless, even if we construe Koziol’s argument as 
challenging the instruction for failing to require the jury to 
find that his threat was baseless under an objective standard, 
we conclude that he has not establi shed plain error. First, 
Koziol does not argue that the district court erred by 
instructing the jury that an “unlawful” threat is “wrongful” 
under the Hobbs Act. See Villalobos , 748 F.3d at 957–58 
(explaining that threats that were “unlawful” were 
“wrongful” under the Hobbs Act). Second, the government 
argued to the jury that Koziol’s threats were “wrongful” 
under the Act because his claims were completely fabricated 
and he knew he was not entitled to obtain money from the 
entertainer; the government did not argue that the threats 
themselves were unlawful.
17 Finally, Koziol’s attorney 
conceded in his closing argument that Koziol’s claim against 
the entertainer was objectively baseless.
18 Therefore, the 

17 For this reason, Koziol’s argument that the court erred by not 
defining “unlawful” also fails. 
18 Koziol’s attorney stated that “the government has given you 
enough proof for you to really believe it wasn’t [ the entertainer] in that 
room that day. I think they have proven that beyond a reasonable doubt 
. . . .” Based on the uncontroverted evidence that the entertainer was not 
the massage customer and was not present, no reasonable litigant could 

 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 37 

first prong of the sham litigation exception was not at issue, 
there is no reasonable probability that omitting it from the 
instruction affected the verdict, and any error did not affect 
the fairness of the proceedings. Conti, 804 F.3d at 981–82. 
Koziol’s argument that the instruction did not require the 
jury to find the second prong of the sham litigation exception 
similarly fails. Koziol argues that the instruction allowed the 
jury to find that a threat is wrongful if the defendant “knew 
he was not entitled to obtain the property,” but did not 
require the jury to find that the threat was for an improper 
purpose. Koziol argues that the second prong of the sham 
litigation exception requires more than subjective 
knowledge that a claim is baseless. He also argues “that a 
reasonable jury could not possibly make the required finding 
[that] Mr. Koziol had a collateral purpose and was 
indifferent to the outcome of the threatened lawsuit.” But 
we have already rejected these arguments and concluded that 
because Koziol did not file his threatened lawsuit, a jury 
could reasonably conclude that Koziol hoped to enforce his 
claim “through the threat of litigation rather than through 
actual litigation,” and therefore sought to achieve his “aim[s] 
through the litigation process rather than through the result 
of that process.” See Rock River Commc’ns, 745 F.3d at 353 
(citation omitted). 
Moreover, the government’s theory of the case, which it 
explicitly argued to the jury, was that Koziol never had any 
intention of filing a lawsuit. The government argued that 
Koziol made false allegations against the entertainer 
“because he wanted to extract an easy score, an easy payday 

have realistically expected success on the merits. See Pro. Re al Est . 
Invs., 508 U.S. at 60– 61. Therefore, this concession established that 
Koziol’s claim was objectively baseless. 
38 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

from someone who had much to lose, not because defendant 
was going to file a legitimate lawsuit” and that Koziol’s 
allegations were “made up. It didn’t happen. None of it 
happened. He knew it. It’s not about a threat to file a 
lawsuit, it’s completely fabricated.” 
Because the instruction required the jury to find that 
Koziol knew he was not entitled to the property, and the 
evidence supported the gover nment’s argument that Koziol 
was hoping to enforce his claims through the threat of 
litigation rather than the result of the litigation process, we 
conclude that the instruction was not misleading and it 
adequately guided the jury’s deliberation. See Liew , 
856 F.3d at 595–96, 598. Finally, even if the instruction 
were erroneous, there was strong evidence that Koziol’s 
threatened litigation was a sham and therefore Koziol has not 
shown a reasonable probability that any instructional error 
affected the outcome of the trial. See Conti, 804 F.3d at 982. 
B. 
Koziol also argues that the Hobbs Act does not apply to 
threats of reputational harm and, therefore, the district court 
erred by instructing the jury that, to return a guilty verdict, it 
could find that Koz iol “intended to induce [the entertainer] 
to part with property by wrongful threat of economic or 
reputational harm.” Koziol’s argument relies entirely on the 
reasoning of the dissent in an unpublished decision from this 
court, United States v. Brank, 724 F. App’x 527, 530–31 (9th 
Cir. 2018) (per curiam) (Reinhardt, J., concurring in part and 
dissenting in part). Koziol does not point us to any binding 
precedent to support his argument, and we find nothing in 
the plain language of the statute that requires us to conclude 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 39 

that threats of reputational harm are not within the purview 
of the Hobbs Act.19 
Nonetheless, we need not decide whether extortion under 
the Hobbs Act includes threats of reputational injury because 
any error in the instruction including r eputational harm was 
harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. See Villalobos , 
748 F.3d at 957 (explaining that a jury instruction can be 
found harmless “if it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that 
a rational jury would have found the defendant guilty absent 
the error” (internal quotation marks and citations omitted)). 
The uncontested evidence, admitted without objection, 
readily established that the entertainer was reasonably 
fearful that Koziol’s allegations would damage his career, 
causing economic harm. To determine whether a defendant 
used “fear,” courts look to “the reasonable s tate of mind of 
the victim.” United States v. Greger , 716 F.2d 1275, 1278 
(9th Cir. 1983) (citations omitted). “A reasonable fear” of 
economic loss “is clearly sufficient to support a conviction 
of ‘extortion’ under the statute.” Cape v. United States , 
283 F.2d 430, 434 (9th Cir. 1960) (citations omitted). 

19 In Brank, the majority observed that the plain language of the 
Hobbs Act encompasses reputational injury. 724 F. App’x at 529 . 
Relying on United States v. Nardello, 393 U.S. 286 (1969), the majority 
concluded that the generic use of “extortion” encompasses threats to 
reputation. 724 F. App’x at 529. In Nardello, the Supreme Court was 
tasked with determining whether, for purposes of the Travel Act, 
18 U.S.C. § 1952, the defendant’s threats to expose the private 
relationships of third parties fell within the statute’s definitio n of 
extortion. 393 U.S. at 296 (citation omitted). After examining the Travel 
Act’s legislative history, the Court declined to give “‘extortion’ an 
unnaturally narrow reading,” finding that threats to reputation fell within 
“the generic term.” Id. Thus, in Brank, we reasoned the same scope 
applied to the generic term “extortion” as used in the Hobbs Act. 724 F. 
App’x at 529. 
40 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

The entertainer testified that Koziol’s allegations could 
damage his career and could “definitely impact [him] 
financially, a lot”; that he could lose corporate sponsors; that 
he would not be hired for certain jobs, including specific 
children’s television programs and movies, fundraising galas 
(which he described as the source of “a lot of [his] income”), 
and performances at religious colleges and universities 
(where he stated he “do[es] extra well”); and that if he lost 
these jobs, he could not continue to employ the people who 
work on his performances. This evidence sufficiently 
demonstrates that the entertainer had a reasonable fear of 
economic loss to establish the “use of fear” under the Hobbs 
Act. See Cape, 283 F.2d at 434. 
Koziol asserts that error from this instruction cannot be 
harmless because the government argued that the entertainer 
suffered both economic and reputational harm, and the 
evidence of economic harm was based on the entertainer ’s 
opinion without “accounting evidence show[ing] actual lost 
business.” But he cites no authority to suggest that the 
entertainer’s testimony would not be sufficient to establish 
his fear of economic harm or that accounting evidence is 
necessary, particularly for a charge of attempted extortion 
where the threatened lawsuit was not filed and the victim did 
not suffer the feared economic harm. Indeed, we have 
previously determined that testimony from extortion victims 
that they believed “serious damage would occur to [the] 
business if” the defendant carried out his threat was 
sufficient to show the use of “fear” to obtain property. 
Greger, 716 F.2d at 1278–79. 
Koziol also argues that “the only evidence of potential 
economic harm was [the entertainer’s] self[ -]serving 
evaluation that he has an ‘autobiographical’ career and is a 
‘person who is relevant and clean.’” We reject this argument 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 41 

because it understates and ignores significant record 
evidence that the entertainer feared economic harm based on 
a reaso nable belief that Koziol’s threatened lawsuit could 
damage his career by costing him jobs and other business 
relationships. See Greger, 716 F.2d at 1278 –79; Cape, 
283 F.2d at 432, 434. 
We conclude that even if the district court erred by 
including reputational harm in the instruction, any error was 
harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. See Villalobos , 
748 F.3d at 957. The uncontested evidence clearly 
established that Koziol’s threats caused the entertainer to 
fear economic harm. Therefore, we reject Kozio l’s 
arguments of instructional error. 
V. 
Koziol also argues that his conviction must be vacated 
based on evidentiary errors. Specifically, Koziol argues that 
the district court erred by allowing a witness—the manager’s 
attorney, Wright—to opine on Koziol’ s and the manager’s 
credibility. When a party preserves an objection to the 
district court’s ruling on the admission of evidence, we 
review that ruling for abuse of discretion. See United States 
v. Obendorf, 894 F.3d 1094, 1098 (9th Cir. 2018). But even 
if the district court erred, we will still affirm unless the error 
“more likely than not affected the verdict.” Id. (citation 
omitted). When an objection to an evidentiary ruling is not 
properly preserved, plain error review applies. See United 
States v. Del Toro- Barboza, 673 F.3d 1136, 1152 (9th Cir. 
2012). 
Koziol argues that Wright’s statements explaining letters 
she wrote in response to demand letters from Sweet’s 
attorney, Saadian, and from Koziol’s attorney, Arzani, 
warrant reversal as improper opi nion testimony. Although 
42 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

he did not object to the admission of these letters, Koziol 
argues that the district court erred in admitting Wright’s 
statements: (1) explaining that, in the letter responding to 
Saadian’s demand letter, she was conveying that “the 
allegations that we determined to be true were that” the 
manager responded to Sweet’s massage ad and that he was 
the massage customer; (2) explaining that “it was [her] 
understanding based on [an] investigation that there were 
more text messages that completed the conversation between 
[the manager] and Ms. Sweet,” but they were not included 
in Saadian’s demand letter; and (3) explaining that, in 
response to Arzani’s letter, she wrote that Koziol’s prior 
claim that the manager assaulted him was an “utter 
fabrication” based on “[i]nformation that [she] learned from 
[her] client,” “information that [she] learned from [her] 
investigation,” and her conclusion that she “inferred from 
the facts,” that Koziol’s claim “just was not plausible or 
credible.”
At trial, Koziol did not object to the first statement as 
improper opinion testimony and he did not make any 
objection to the second statement. Accordingly, Koziol 
failed to preserve these issues for appeal, and we review for 
plain error.
21 See Del Toro -Barboza, 673 F.3d at 1152. 

20 This letter to Arzani stated: “[A]s to [the manager], I will repeat 
what we told your client last August when he first tried his extortion 
scam. His claim that [the manager] assaulted and battered him on 
January 10 is a complete and utter fabrication.” 
21 We reject Koziol’s argument that his failure to raise the proper 
objection does not matter for the standard of review because his 
objection on personal knowledge grounds “ma[d]e the point.” An 
evidentiary issue is not preserved unless the specific objection is raised 
at trial. See, e.g. , United States v. Sioux , 362 F.3d 1241, 1245 n.5 (9th 
Cir. 2004); see also Del Toro-Barboza, 673 F.3d at 1152 (“[A] party fails 

 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 43 

Koziol fails to establish plain error for either statement 
because they reflect Wright’s understanding of the 
manager’s version of the incident; they do not clearly or 
directly opine on whether the manager was telling the truth. 
Thus, the district court did not plainly err in allowing this 
testimony. 
But, as the government concedes, the district court 
abused its discretion in overruling Koziol’s objection and 
admitting Wright’s third statement that she “inferred from 
the facts” that Koziol’s claim that the manager assaulted him 
was not credible. We conclude, however, that the admission 
of this testimony was harmless because it was similar to and 
cumulative of Wright’s other testimony —which was 
admitted without objection and not chall enged on appeal—
that she “was incredulous” and “thought [Koziol’s claim] 
was not believable.”
22 See United States v. Lindsey , 
634 F.3d 541, 553 (9th Cir. 2011) (stating that the erroneous 
admission of evidence was harmless because the evidence 
was cumulat ive of evidence that was not challenged on 
appeal). 
In addition, as we have already explained, the evidence 
strongly supports the conclusion that Koziol lied in his 
claims that the entertainer assaulted him and that he knew he 
had no lawful claim against the entertainer. Therefore, any 
error in admitting Wright’s third statement that she 
concluded that Koziol’s claims against the manager were not 

to preserve an evidentiary issue for appeal not only by failing to make a 
specific objection, but also by making the wrong specific objection.” 
(alteration in original) (citations omitted)). 
22 Wright also testified, without objection, that she told Koziol she 
“didn’t believe him” because he was not mentioned in any prior 
correspondence regarding the incident. 
44 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

credible was harmless based on the strength of the 
government’s case charging Koziol with extorting the 
entertainer, not the manager. See United States v. Gillam , 
167 F.3d 1273, 1277 (9th Cir. 1999); United States v. Wang, 
49 F.3d 502, 504 (9th Cir. 1995). 
Finally, the district court remedied any error by giving a 
limiting instruction that Wright’s testimony was “ offered 
only to explain why she did what she did” and did not 
“control[]” the jury’s decision of guilt. See United States v. 
Mende, 43 F.3d 1298, 1302 (9th Cir. 1995) (concluding that 
limiting instruction mitigated any “resultant prejudice” from 
admitted evidence and noting that “we must presume that 
juries will follow the district court’s limiting instructions”). 
Koziol, however, argues that the limiting instruction was 
inadequate because the court stated that Wright’s statements 
had some probative value. But Wright’s testimony that she 
told Koziol that his claims were baseless, and why, was 
relevant to whether Koziol ever knew that his threatened 
litigation was a baseless sham. Therefore, we conclude that 
the district court’s admission of Wright’s third statement 
constitutes harmless error. See, e.g., United States v. 
Arambula-Ruiz, 987 F.2d 599, 605 (9th Cir. 1993) (holding 
error in admitting evidence was “harmless because it is not 
probable that the evidence materially affected the jurors’ 
verdict”). 
VI. 
Finally, Koziol argues that the district court erred at 
sentencing by misapplying the Sentencing Guidelines and by 
failing to recognize its discretion to order that his sentence 
run concurrently to his sentence for a prior conviction in 
state court for pimping and pander ing. Koziol argues that 
these errors require that we vacate his sentence. 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 45 

We review the district court’s sentencing decision for 
abuse of discretion. United States v. Carty , 520 F.3d 984, 
993 (9th Cir. 2008) (en banc). If the district court improperly 
calculates the Guidelines range or bases its decision on 
clearly erroneous facts, it abuses its discretion. Id. We 
review for plain error when a defendant fails to object to the 
district court’s implementation of the Guidelines. See 
United States v. Lloyd, 807 F.3d 1128, 1139 (9th Cir. 2015). 
A. 
The district court sentenced Koziol to seventy months’ 
imprisonment, concluding that his total offense level was 
twenty-three and he was in criminal history category IV. To 
calculate the Guidelines range, the dis trict court applied 
Guidelines § 2B3.3, “Blackmail and Similar Forms of 
Extortion,” which provides a base offense level of nine. 
U.S.S.G. § 2B3.3(a). This section also provides for 
increases in the base offense level based on “the amount 
obtained or demanded,” with the specific increases set out in 
§ 2B1.1. Id. § 2B3.3(b)(1). If the amount obtained or 
demanded exceeds $550,000, but is $1,500,000 or less, a 
fourteen-level increase applies. Id. § 2B1.1(b)(1)(H)–(I). 
Because Koziol demanded $1,000,000 from the entertainer, 
the district court added fourteen levels to the base offense 
level. Thus, the district court concluded that Koziol’s total 
offense level was twenty -three, which resulted in a 
guidelines imprisonment range of seve nty to eighty- seven 
months. The district court sentenced Koziol to the low end 
of that range. 
Koziol argues that the district court erred by applying the 
fourteen-level increase in § 2B1.1 because his initial 
settlement demand of $1,000,000 was intended t o start 
negotiations and therefore cannot be considered the true 
46 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

amount “demanded” for purposes of § 2B3.3(b).23 He 
argues that “people involved in litigation know the initial 
‘demand’ is not the real demand.” Thus, he contends, 
without citation to authority, that a district court must “make 
a finding . . . about what the defendant’s intended demand 
was.” 
But § 2B3.3 does not instruct courts to determine the 
defendant’s intended demand, and instead provides for 
increases in the offense level based on the amount “obtained 
or demanded.” See United States v. Zhuang, 270 F.3d 107, 
108–09 (2d Cir. 2001) (rejecting argument that an increase 
in offense level under § 2B3.3 should depend on the 
defendant’s intent or ability to receive the amount demanded 
and affir ming sentence enhancement based on initial 
$68,000 demand even though the defendant later reduced the 
demand to $10,000). It is undisputed that Koziol demanded 
$1,000,000 from the entertainer. Therefore, the district court 
did not err by applying the specific offense characteristics in 
§ 2B1.1(b)(1)(H) and increasing Koziol’s base offense level 
by fourteen points. 
B. 
Koziol also argues that the district court erred by failing 
to apply Guidelines § 2X1.1, which provides offense 
guidelines for attempt, soli citation, and conspiracy when 
these offenses are not otherwise covered by a specific 
offense guideline. Section 2X1.1(b)(1) provides that the 
district court shall decrease the offense level by three for an 

23 In his demands, Koziol stated he would be open to a “structured 
settlement,” but he did not argue before us that the district court erred by 
not considering the possibility that the value of any “structured 
settlement” would be below the $550,000 threshold of § 2B1.1(b)(1)(H). 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 47 

attempted offense, “unless the defendant completed all the 
acts the defendant believed necessary for successful 
completion of the substantive offense or the circumstances 
demonstrate that the defendant was about to complete all 
such acts but for apprehension or interruption by some 
similar event beyond t he defendant’s control.”
24 In other 
words, a defendant is entitled to the reduction unless “the 
remaining steps to be taken in the commission of a crime are 
so insubstantial that the commission of the substantive 
offense is inevitable.” United States v. Martinez -Martinez, 
156 F.3d 936, 939 (9th Cir. 1998). 
Because Koziol did not raise this argument during 
sentencing, we review for plain error. See Lloyd, 807 F.3d 
at 1139. To establish plain error in sentencing, Koziol “must 
‘demonstrate a reasonable pro bability that [he] would have 
received a different sentence if the district court had not 
erred.’” See United States v. Joseph , 716 F.3d 1273, 1280 
(9th Cir. 2013) (alteration in original) (quoting United States 
v. Tapia, 665 F.3d 1059, 1061 (9th Cir. 2011)). “A 
‘reasonable probability’ is, of course, less than a certainty, 
or even a likelihood.” Id. (citation omitted). Plain error 
“seriously affects the fairness, integrity, or public reputation 
of judicial proceedings” where it “may have increased the 
length of a defendant’s sentence.” Id. (citations omitted). 
The government concedes that the district court erred by 
failing to apply § 2X1.1, which applies by default because 
§ 2B3.3 does not expressly apply to attempted extortion, but 
it argues that the court did not plainly err because Koziol 

24 Under § 2X1.1(a), the court applies “[t]he base offense level from 
the guideline for the substantive offense, plus any adjustments from such 
guideline for any intended offense conduct that can be established with 
reasonable certainty.” 
48 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 

would not have been entitled to a reduction under this 
provision. We reject the government’s argument and 
conclude that this conceded error was plain. See United 
States v. Simon, 858 F.3d 1289, 1298 (9th Cir. 2017) (en 
banc) (holding that a Guidelines section expressly covers an 
inchoate offense “only if the Guidelines themselves so 
indicate”); Joseph, 716 F.3d at 1280 (explaining that an error 
is plain if it is clearly “contrary to the law at the time of 
appeal” (citation omitted)). 
The government, however, contends that it “would not 
have been clearly erroneous for the district court to find that 
defendant completed all the acts he believed necessary for a 
successful completion of the crime of extortion.” But the 
district court did not consider § 2X1.1 and did not make such 
findings. There is at least a reasonable probability that the 
district court would have imposed a three -level reduction 
had it imposed the correct Sentencing Guideline. Therefore, 
this error, which may have increased Koziol’s sentence, 
affected Koziol’s substantial rights and the integrity of the 
judicial proceedings. See Joseph , 716 F.3d at 1280. We 
vacate the sentence and remand for resentencing. 
C. 
Finally, Koziol asserts that the distric t court erred in 
failing to recognize that it had discretion to impose a 
sentence to run concurrent with the sentence imposed for 
Koziol’s conviction in state court. The government responds 
that the district court understood that it had authority under 
18 U.S.C. § 3584(a) to impose a concurrent sentence but 
“did not believe a concurrent sentence was appropriate.” We 
need not address this issue as we have already determined 
that there was reversible error requiring resentencing. On 
remand, the district co urt can determine if a concurrent 
sentence is appropriate under 18 U.S.C. § 3584(a). See 
 UNITED STATES V. KOZIOL 49 

United States v. Montes-Ruiz, 745 F.3d 1286, 1293 (9th Cir. 
2014); United States v. Ponce , 51 F.3d 820, 826 (9th Cir. 
1995). 
VII. 
The Hobbs Act imposes criminal liabi lity for extortion 
on those who obtain property from another by the “wrongful 
use of . . . fear.” 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a), (b)(2). We conclude 
that there is no statutory, constitutional, or policy basis to 
exclude categorically threats of sham litigation from liability 
under the Hobbs Act. Instead, we must consider the 
circumstances of such threats to determine if the means used 
were “wrongful” under the Act, or if the ends were 
“wrongful” because the defendant sought property to which 
he knew he had no lawf ul claim. We hold that Koziol’s 
threats of sham litigation were wrongful because sufficient 
evidence supported the jury’s verdict that he sought property 
to which he knew he had no lawful claim, and we affirm his 
conviction for attempted extortion under the Hobbs Act. We 
also reject Koziol’s arguments of instructional and 
evidentiary error. However, because we conclude that there 
was plain error at sentencing, we vacate Koziol’s sentence 
and remand for further proceedings consistent with this 
opinion. 
Conviction AFFIRMED; Sentence VACATED and 
REMANDED for resentencing.