[Cite as Vesper v. Otterbein Lebanon, 2021-Ohio-4545.] 

IN THE COURT OF APPEALS 

TWELFTH APPELLATE DISTRICT OF OHIO 

WARREN COUNTY 

MARY GLORIA VESPER, et al., 

 Appellants, 

 - vs - 

OTTERBEIN LEBANON, 

 Appellee. 
: 

: 

: 

: 

: 

: 

CASE NO. CA2021-02-016 

O P I N I O N 
12/27/2021 

CIVIL APPEAL FROM WARREN COUNTY COURT OF COMMON PLEAS 
Case No. 19CV92211 

Pro Senior, Inc., and Miriam H. Sheline and M. Elizabeth Hils, for appellants. 

The Holfinger Stevenson Law Firm, Ltd., and Michael S. Kearns; Rolf Goffman Martin Lang 
LLP, and David S. Brown and W. Cory Phillips, for appellee. 

 BYRNE, J. 
{¶1} Plaintiffs, Mary Gloria Vesper and Catherine Vesper (collective ly, "the 
Vespers"), appeal from the decision of the Warren County Court of Common Pleas, which 
denied the Vespers' motion for summary judgment and granted the summary judgment 
motion of Defendant, Otterbein Lebanon Seniorlife Community ("O tterbein")t, thereby 
dismissing the Vespers' claims against Otterbein for alleged vi olations of the Ohio 

Consumer Sales Practices Act. For the reasons discussed below, we affirm the trial court's 
decision. 
I. Factual Background 
{¶2} Mary Gloria Vesper was the wife of George Vesper. Catherine Vesper is Mary 
Gloria and George's daughter. George was admitted to Otterbein 's long-term care facility 
in October 2015 and began receiving personal care and nursing s ervices, as well as room 
and board. Contemporaneous with George's admission, Mary Glori a signed Otterbein's 
Residency Agreement. Mary Gloria executed the Residency Agreem ent as 
"Representative," which is a defined term in the agreement. Ge orge did not sign the 
Residency Agreement. 
{¶3} Consistent with federal and state laws and regulations, the Res idency 
Agreement specifically provided that the person executing the a greement as 
Representative bore no personal liability as to the financial o bligations incurred by the 
Resident for services rendered by Otterbein. 1 However, the Representative did agree to 
the following relevant terms: 
Duty of Representative on Behalf of Resident. 
During the term of his/her residency, the Resident may need 
assistance in arranging for payment for the services provided. 
You have asserted to Otterbein that the Representative shall act 
in a fiduciary capacity on the Resident's behalf to satisfy the 
Resident's financial obligations under this Agreement if the 
Resident chooses not to, or is unable to, meet those obligations. 
The Resident shall be primarily responsible for making 
payments to Otterbein until such time as he/she assigns the 
responsibility for making payment to the Representative or until 
he/she can no longer make payments on his/her own behalf; at 
such time, the Representative shall become primarily 
responsible for making such payments. 

1. Federal and state law prohibits nursing facilities from requiring a third party to personally guarantee payment 
of charges incurred by a resident. 42 U.S.C. 1396r(c)(5)(A)(ii) and (B)(ii); 42 C.F.R. 483.15(a)(3); and 
O.A.C.5160-3-02(C)(4). These statutes and regulations, however , do not prohibit a nursing facility from 
requiring third parties who have access to the resident's funds from entering into a contract requiring payment 
by the third party from the resident's funds. Id. 

Legal Authority to Access Resident's Funds. 
You have asserted that the Representative has legal access to 
the Resident's income, assets or resources, including, but not 
limited to, social security, pension or retirement funds, annuities, 
insurance, bank accounts, and mutual funds; and, You 
understand that Otterbein is entering into this Agreement in 
reliance on that assertion. * * *.

Diversion of Resident's Resources. 
Representative agrees to be a good financial steward of the 
Resident's income, resources and assets over which he/she has 
control. * * * If any payments or funds of the Resident that ar e 
available to pay for the Resident's care are withheld, 
misappropriated for personal use, or otherwise not turned over 
to Otterbein for payment of the Resident's financial obligation s 
under this Agreement, then Representative agrees to pay those 
amounts to Otterbein from the Representative's own resources. 
* * *. 

{¶4} Catherine was not present during George's admission. She also did not sign 
the Residency Agreement. However, Catherine had previously met with Otterbein's 
representatives and provided them with a copy of a general, dur able power of attorney 
nominating her as George's attorney-in-fact. Catherine worked with Otterbein's Medicaid 
specialist to transition the payments of George's Medicaid benefits to Otterbein.
{¶5} George's Medicaid benefits were successfully transitioned to pa y for 
Otterbein's services. Otterbein's Medicaid specialist regularl y contacted Catherine, 
requesting and receiving certain records to ensure that Otterbe in continued receiving 
George's Medicaid benefits. From October 2015 through July 201 7, Otterbein received 
uninterrupted payments from the Ohio Department of Medicaid for services and supplies 
furnished to George. 
{¶6} However, on July 31, 2017, George's Medicaid benefits were terminated. This 
was apparently due to a determination by Job and Family Service s that George had failed 

2. The Residency Agreement defined "You," as referring to both the Resident and Representative. 

3. Prior to entering Otterbein, George was receiving Medicaid benefits and had been at a different facility. 

to "cooperate with the redetermination process." It is not cle ar from the record how the 
agency made this determination. Catherine and Otterbein thereafter worked on submitting 
a new application for Medicaid benefits on behalf of George. G eorge's Medicaid benefits 
were eventually reinstated, but not for many months. Despite n ot being paid during this 
period of time, Otterbein continued providing George with healt hcare services and room 
and board. 
{¶7} George died in February 2018, prior to a determination regardin g his new, 
pending Medicaid application. At the time of George's death, O tterbein had still not been 
paid for services and room and board rendered to George between August 2017 and 
February 2018. Geor ge's outstanding bill at Otterbein at that t i m e w a s a p p r o x i m a t e l y 
$61,000. 
II. The Hamilton County Lawsuit 
{¶8} In April 2018, Otterbein filed suit against Mary Gloria and Cat herine in the 
Hamilton County Court of Common Pleas. Against Mary Gloria, Ot terbein alleged breach 
of contract, promissory estoppel, and a claim for necessaries u nder R.C. 3103.03(C). 
Against Catherine, Otterbein asserted claims for promissory estoppel and a statutory action 
pursuant to R.C. 1337.092(B) for alleged negligent/unauthorized acts Catherine undertook 
as George's attorney-in-fact. 
{¶9} The Vespers separately answered and counterclaimed. The counte rclaims 
both alleged that Otterbein had violated Ohio's Consumer Sales Practice Act, R.C. 1345.02 
and 1345.03 ("CSPA"). Specifically, the Vespers allege that th ey were consumers and 
Otterbein was a supplier under the CSPA and that Otterbein acted unfairly, deceptively, and 
unconscionably by filing the Hamilton County lawsuit and attempting to collect a debt upon 
which neither Mary Gloria nor Catherine were liable. 
{¶10} In July 2018, Otterbein moved to dismiss the Vespers' counterclaims, arguing 

that the Vespers lacked standing to bring CSPA claims against O tterbein. The Vespers 
filed memoranda in opposition and the matter was fully briefed. 
{¶11} In September 2018, George's Medicaid benefits were retroactively reinstated 
via an administrative appeal. Otterbein thereafter received payment for George's past due 
amount. Otterbein dismissed its claims against the Vespers in the Hamilton County lawsuit. 
The Vespers' counterclaims remained pending. 
{¶12} In October 2018, the Hamilton County common pleas court judge's law clerk 
emailed the parties to advise them that the judge intended to g rant Otterbein's motions to 
dismiss the Vespers' counterclaims. He also requested that Ott erbein prepare, and the 
Vespers review, a proposed entry. However, hours later, and be fore the court's dismissal 
entry was prepared or filed, the Vespers voluntarily dismissed their counterclaims under 
Civ.R. 41(A)(1), terminating the Hamilton County lawsuit. 
III. The Warren County Lawsuit 
{¶13} Six months later, in April 2019, the Vespers filed this action against Otterbein 
in the Warren County Court of Common Pleas. The Vespers' new complaint included near 
identical CSPA claims to those they had previously filed and th en dismissed in Hamilton 
County.4 
{¶14} The parties filed competing motions for summary judgment. In t he Vespers' 
summary judgment motion, in relevant part, they argued that Ott erbein violated the CSPA 
by wrongfully filing suit against them in Hamilton County and additionally violated the CSPA 
by failing to refund Mary Gloria with an approximate overpayment of $5,076.79 of George's 
Medicaid benefits for 21 months. 

4. Otterbein moved to transfer the case to Hamilton County. Th e Warren County court denied the motion. 
The court, while indicating its concern for what appeared to be forum shopping, observed that venue was 
proper in Warren County and the Vespers had an absolute right, regardless of motive, to dismiss their 
Hamilton County claims under Civ.R. 41(A)(1). 

{¶15} The trial court denied the Vespers' summary judgment motion and granted 
Otterbein's summary judgment motion. In granting Otterbein's motion, the trial court found 
that Catherine was not a "consumer" with respect to her interac tion with Otterbein and 
therefore lacked standing to assert a CSPA claim. The court noted that Catherine had not 
signed the Residency Agreement, nor was she present at its signing. 
{¶16} The court did find that Mary Gloria was a consumer with respect to Otterbein 
because she had signed the Residency Agreement and had entered into a transaction with 
Otterbein in a fiduciary capacity. However, the court found th at there was nothing "wholly 
unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable" with respect to Otterbein's action of filing suit against 
the Vespers in Hamilton County. The court noted that the Residency Agreement indicated 
the potential that Otterbein would bring suit against Mary Glor ia in her capacity as 
"Representative" if Otterbein was not paid for the services provided to George. 
{¶17} With respect to the overpayment refund, the court found that Ot terbein had 
not acted unfairly, deceptively, or unconscionably. The court noted that Mary Gloria was 
not the person entitled to the refund, and instead those funds were owed to George's estate, 
which was not a party to the suit. Accordingly, the court foun d that Mary Gloria lacked 
standing to claim that the delayed release of the overpayment was a CSPA violation. 
{¶18} The Vespers appeal, raising two assignments of error, which we will address 
out of order. 
IV. Law and Analysis 
{¶19} Assignment of Error No. 2: 
{¶20} THE TRIAL COURT ERRED BY GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
DISMISSING APPELLANT MARY GLORIA VESPER'S CLAIMS. 
{¶21} In their second assignment of error, the Vespers argue the trial court erred in 
dismissing their CSPA claims because they were wrongfully sued in Hamilton County, the 

filing of the lawsuit constituted a CSPA violation, and because Otterbein delayed refunding 
to Mary Gloria an overpayment of George's Medicaid benefits. 
A. Standard of Review 
{¶22} This court reviews a trial court's summary judgment decision under a de novo 
standard. Deutsche Bank Natl. Trust Co. v. Sexton, 12th Dist. Butler No. CA2009-11-288, 
2010-Ohio-4802, ¶ 7. Summary judgment is appropriate under Civ.R. 56 when (1) there is 
no genuine issue of material fact remaining to be litigated, (2 ) the moving party is entitled 
to judgment as a matter of law, and (3) reasonable minds can co me to but one conclusion 
and that conclusion is adverse to the nonmoving party, who is entitled to have the evidence 
construed in his favor. BAC Home Loans Servicing, L.P. v. Kolenich, 194 Ohio App.3d 777, 
2011-Ohio-3345, ¶ 17 (12th Dist.), citing Zivich v. Mentor Soccer Club, Inc., 82 Ohio St.3d 
367, 369-370 (1998). 
{¶23} The party requesting summary judgment bears the initial burden of informing 
the court of the basis for the motion and identifying those por tions of the record that 
demonstrate the absence of a genuine issue of material fact. Dresher v. Burt, 75 Ohio St.3d 
280, 292 (1996). Once a party moving for summary judgment has satisfied its initial burden, 
the nonmoving party "must then rebut the moving party's evidenc e with specific facts 
showing the existence of a genuine triable issue; it may not rest on the mere allegations or 
denials in its pleadings." Sexton at ¶ 7; Civ.R. 56(E). 
B. Overview of the CSPA 
{¶24} The CSPA prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices and unconscionable 
acts or practices by suppliers in consumer transactions. R.C. 1345.02(A) and 1345.03(A); 
Einhorn v. Ford Motor Co. , 48 Ohio St.3d 27, 29 (1990). A "consumer" is defined as "a 
person who engages in a consumer transaction with a supplier." R.C. 1345.01(D). A 
"supplier" is a "seller, lessor, assignor, franchisor, or other person engaged in the business 

of effecting or soliciting consumer transactions * * *." R.C. 1345.01(C). A "consumer 
transaction" means "a sale, lease, assignment, award by chance, or other transfer of an 
item of goods, a service, a franchise, or an intangible, to an individual for purposes that are 
primarily personal, family, or household, or solicitation to supply any of these things." R.C. 
1345.01(A). 
{¶25} R.C. 1345.02(B) contains a representative list of unfair and/or deceptive 
practices. In one example, a supplier violates the CSPA if it makes false claims as to the 
quality or newness of the subject of a consumer transaction. R .C. 1345.02(B)(2) and (3). 
In another example, a supplier acts deceptively if it falsely i nforms a consumer that repair 
or replacement is needed. R.C. 1345.02(B)(7). 
{¶26} R.C. 1345.03(B)(1) through (7) presents a list of considerations for a trial court 
to undertake in determining whether an act or practice was "unconscionable." One example 
is where a "supplier has knowingly taken advantage of the inabi l i t y o f t h e c o n s u m e r 
reasonably to protect the consumer's interests because of the c onsumer's physical or 
mental infirmities, ignorance, illiteracy, or inability to unde rstand the language of an 
agreement* * *." R.C. 1345.03(B)(1). When these examples and considerations are 
considered together, "the CSPA defines "unfair or deceptive consumer sales practices" as 
those that mislead consumers about the nature of the product th ey are receiving, while 
"unconscionable acts or practices" relate to a supplier manipul ating a consumer's 
understanding of the nature of the transaction at issue." Johnson v. Microsoft Corp., 106 
Ohio St.3d 278, 2005-Ohio-4985, ¶ 24. 
{¶27} Unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable acts or practices constitu t e a C S P A 
violation whether they occur before, during, or after the consu mer transaction. R.C. 
1345.02(A) and 1345.03(A). Accordingly, "[t]he collection of d ebts associated with 
consumer transactions is within the purview of the [CSPA] since it covers acts which occur 

before, during, or after the transaction." Broadnax v. Greene Credit Serv., 118 Ohio App.3d 
881, 892 (2d Dist.1997), citing Celebrezze v. United Research, Inc., 19 Ohio App.3d 49 (9th 
Dist.1984). Accord Smith v. A.B. Bonded Locksmith, Inc., 143 Ohio App. 3d 321, 331 (1st 
Dist.2001). 
C. Analysis of Otterbein's Hamilton County Lawsuit 
Claims as Alleged CSPA Violations 

{¶28} In the proceedings below, the pa rties stipulated that Otterbein qualified as a 
"supplier" for CSPA purposes.
5 But Otterbein disputed that the Vespers were "consumers" 
under the CSPA and disputed that the parties engaged in a "cons umer transaction" with 
Otterbein. We will presume, for purposes of deciding this assi gnment of error only, that 
both Catherine and Mary Gloria qualified as "consumers" under t he CSPA and that they 
engaged Otterbein in a "consumer transaction." As demonstrated below, it is unnecessary 
for us to decide these questions because we do not find that Otterbein's action of authorizing 
its legal counsel to file the Hamilton County lawsuit constitut ed an unfair, deceptive, or 
unconscionable practice in conjunction with a consumer transact ion. After careful review 
of the background facts, pleadings, and relevant law, there is nothing about the Hamilton 
County complaint, i.e., its content and claims, that is unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable 
under the CSPA. 
{¶29} The Vespers did not dispute many of the basic factual allegatio ns of the 
complaint. That is, the parties do not dispute that George was admitted to Otterbein, that 
Mary Gloria signed Otterbein's Residency Agreement as "Representative," or that Otterbein 
was aware that George designated Catherine, via a durable power of attorney, as his 
attorney-in-fact. The parties further do not dispute that Cath erine was actively involved in 

5. Residential care facilities, such as Otterbein, have been co nsidered "suppliers" that are subject to the 
CSPA. Elder v. Fischer, 129 Ohio App.3d 209, 215, (1st Dist.1998). 

George's care and with assisting Otterbein with obtaining George's Medicaid benefits. The 
parties further agree that for six months leading to his death, Otterbein provided personal 
and nursing services and room and board to George and was not paid for those services at 
that time. 
{¶30} Based upon these facts, and for the reasons explained below, the legal claims 
asserted by Otterbein against the Vespers were colorable and the assertion of those claims 
does not constitute an unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable act or practice under the CSPA. 
We will analyze each claim separately. 
a. Breach of Contract Claim Against Mary Gloria 
{¶31} With regard to Mary Gloria, Otterbein asserted breach of contract. There were 
obvious grounds for this claim given that it was undisputed tha t Mary Gloria signed the 
Residency Agreement, which contained terms in which she represe nted that she had 
access to George's assets and that she would act in a fiduciary capacity with respect to 
satisfying George's financial obligations incurred at Otterbein. Otterbein alleged that it had 
not been paid and that Mary Gloria had breached aspects of the agreement relating to 
assuring payment of George's assets. 
{¶32} The Vespers challenge the legitimacy of the breach of contract claim on two 
grounds. First, they argue that the Residency Agreement was un enforceable because it 
was unsigned by George, and Mary Gloria could not guarantee an unsigned contract. 
Second, they argue that Mary Gloria did not and could not sign the agreement on behalf of 
George because she was not his attorney-in-fact for financial purposes. These arguments 
are simply in the nature of legal defenses that the Vespers cou ld have raised in the 
proceedings in Hamilton County had that litigation been decided on the merits. These 
arguments do not establish that the breach of contract claim was wholly baseless or that its 
assertion constituted a deceptive, unfair, or unconscionable act under the CSPA. 

b. Necessaries Claim Against Mary Gloria 
{¶33} Otterbein also asserted a claim for necessaries against Mary Gloria, pursuant 
to R.C. 3103.03. The necessaries statute imposes a statutory d uty on spouses to support 
one another out of the person's property or labor and that if one spouse is unable to do so, 
the other spouse must assist in support so far as they are able . R.C. 3103.03(A). The 
statute further provides that if one spouse fails to support th e other, then any other person 
may supply the spouse needing support with "necessaries," i.e., food, shelter, clothing, and 
medical services, and thereafter recover the reasonable value of necessaries supplied from 
the non-supporting spouse. R.C. 3103.03(C). The statute has be en utilized by nursing 
facilities seeking to obtain payment from the spouse of a non-p aying resident. See 
Embassy Healthcare v. Bell , 155 Ohio St.3d 430, 2018-Ohio-4912. It is undisputed that 
Mary Gloria was George's spouse and that Otterbein provided Geo rge with necessaries 
during his stay at Otterbein's facility. Thus, there were colo rable grounds for the assertion 
of the necessaries claim and its assertion in the Hamilton County lawsuit was not an unfair, 
deceptive, or unconscionable act under the CSPA. 
{¶34} The Vespers nonetheless argue that the necessaries claim was gr oundless. 
The Vespers specifically argue that Otterbein was required by R .C. 2117.06(C) and 
Embassy Healthcare to present its claim to George's estate within six months of h is death 
before it was permitted to pursue a necessaries claim, and that Otterbein's failure to do so 
barred its necessaries claim. 
{¶35} This argument may have been a successful defense to Otterbein's 
necessaries claim, but it was only a defense. The necessaries claim was not groundless 
when it was filed because it is undisputed that Otterbein provided George with care, room, 
and board for six months without being paid the $61,000 it was owed, and Mary Gloria was 
George's spouse. In these circumstances, the fact that Otterbe in asserted a colorable 

necessaries claim does not establish an unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable act under the 
CSPA. 
c. Promissory Estoppel Claim Against Mary Gloria and Catherine 
{¶36} Otterbein brought claims of promissory estoppel against both Mary Gloria and 
Catherine. Both claims appear colorable based on the undispute d, underlying facts. The 
promissory estoppel claim against Mary Gloria is effectively ju st an alternative theory of 
recovery with regard to the breach of contract claim. That is, if the court were to determine 
that the Residency Agreement was unenforceable, then Otterbein would argue that it relied 
upon Mary Gloria's promise to use her access to George's fund to pay for his nursing care 
at Otterbein. 
{¶37} The promissory estoppel claim against Catherine also appears co lorable 
based on the parties' situation. Otterbein alleged in its Hami lton County complaint that 
Catherine made some promises or guarantees to Otterbein's staff concerning payment for 
George so that he could remain in the facility for months follo wing the termination of his 
Medicaid benefits. Otterbein's awareness of Catherine's status as George's attorney-in-
fact could potentially make it reasonable for it to rely on such a promise – or at least, it made 
Otterbein's claim colorable. 
{¶38} Nonetheless, the Vespers argue that Otterbein's promissory esto ppel claim 
would be barred by R.C. 1335.05, the statute of frauds, which requires that any agreement 
to answer for the debt of another must be in writing. Again, t his is a defense to a legal 
claim; it does not demonstrate that Otterbein's claims were not colorable, much less that 
the assertion of the claims in the Hamilton County lawsuit constituted an unfair, deceptive, 
or unconscionable act or practice under the CSPA. 
d. R.C. 1337.092(B) Claim Against Catherine 
{¶39} Finally, Otterbein asserted a claim pursuant to R.C. 1337.092(B )(3) against 

Catherine for damages in conjunction with allegedly negligent a cts she undertook as 
George's attorney-in-fact. Like the aforementioned claims, thi s claim is also colorable 
based on the fact that Catherine was George's attorney-in-fact, frequently communicated 
with Otterbein regarding George's care and Medicaid benefits, a nd Otterbein alleged that 
Catherine's negligent failure to take certain actions as George 's attorney-in-fact caused 
George to accrue a debt with Otterbein. The inclusion of the R .C. 1337.092(B) claim was 
not an unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable act under the CSPA. 
D. Analysis of Otterbein's Request for Contractual Interest 
and Attorney Fees as Alleged CSPA Violation 

{¶40} The Vespers further argue that the Hamilton County lawsuit was unfair, 
deceptive, or unconscionable because Otterbein's complaint sought 18 percent interest and 
attorney fees on certain claims. The Vespers contend that Otterbein was not entitled to 18 
percent interest or attorney fees, and, citing Taylor v. First Resolution Invest. Corp. , 148 
Ohio St.3d 627, 2016-Ohio-3444, argue that Otterbein's action constituted a violation of the 
federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ("FDCPA"), 15 U.S.C. 1692 et seq., as well as 
the CSPA. We disagree. 
{¶41} In Taylor, the debt collector filed a lawsuit demanding interest at 24 p ercent. 
Id. at ¶ 26. However, the debt collector did not actually possess the credit card agreement 
to prove the contractual interest rate and otherwise would have only been entitled to interest 
at a rate of 4 percent. Id. at ¶ 26, 83. The Ohio Supreme Court noted that the debt collector 
"here went far beyond simply filing a complaint without yet hav ing 'adequate proof of its 
claim.'" Id. at ¶ 83, quoting Harvey v. Great Seneca Fin. Corp. , 453 F.3d at 324, 333 (6th 
Cir.2006). The debt collector did not attach any document pote ntially supporting the 
claimed 24 percent interest rate, sought default judgment, and filed an affidavit signed by 
its employee asserting that 24 percent interest was owed, witho ut any basis for that 

assertion. Id. Essentially the debt collector in Taylor wholesale fabricated a claim that 24 
percent interest was owed. The court held that the consumer co uld bring an action under 
the FDCPA and the CSPA in these circumstances where the request ed interest rate was 
"unavailable under the law." Id. at ¶ 1, 83-86. 
{¶42} This case is distinguishable from Taylor. Otterbein sought 18 percent interest 
and attorney fees only with respect to the breach of contract claim against Mary Gloria and 
the R.C. 1337.092(B)(3) claim against Catherine. Otterbein rel ied on the Residency 
Agreement, which contained a provision for interest accruing at the rate of 1.5 percent per 
month (or 18 percent annually) and also provided for the collec tion of attorney fees if 
Otterbein had to resort to collection efforts. Thus, Otterbein 's request for contractual 
interest and attorney fees was not groundless and was colorable. 
{¶43} This is not to say that Otterbein necessarily would have prevailed and properly 
been awarded 18 percent interest from Mary Gloria on its breach of contract claim against 
her and/or Catherine on its R.C. 1337.092(B)(3) claim against h er if the Hamilton County 
case had proceeded. While it is not certain that Otterbein wou ld have ultimately prevailed 
in obtaining interest at 18 percent or attorney fees on those specific claims, the request for 
interest and attorney fees was colorable and therefore did not constitute an unfair, 
deceptive, or unconscionable act under the CSPA. 
E. Analysis of Otterbein's Failure to Refund Overpayment 
as Alleged CSPA Violation 

{¶44} The Vespers argue that the trial court erred in finding that Ot terbein did not 
violate the CSPA by its "refusal" to refund a $5,076.79 overpay ment for 21 months. The 
"overpayment" was seemingly due to the July 2018 decision of th e Bureau of State 
Hearings, which, in reinstating George's Medicaid benefits, als o redetermined his monthly 
patient liability. 

{¶45} The record indicates Mary Gloria had requested, through counsel , that 
Otterbein issue a check for the overpayment to her personally. Otterbein resisted this 
request and instead offered to issue a check to the Estate of G eorge Vesper. The check 
was eventually issued to George's Estate in May 2020 at the Vespers' counsel's request. 
{¶46} It is undisputed that the refund did not belong to Mary Gloria and instead was 
property of George's estate. The record indicates that Otterbe in offered to transfer the 
refund proceeds to George's estate, but that Mary Gloria wanted the refund to be issued to 
her personally. Otterbein argues that it could not comply with Mary Gloria's demand without 
exposing itself to potential liability. We find nothing unfair , deceptive, or unconscionable 
under the CSPA with respect to the timing of the overpayment refund. 
V. Conclusion 
{¶47} Based on the foregoing, we find that there are no genuine issue s of material 
fact remaining to be litigated that would preclude summary judg ment, that Otterbein was 
entitled to summary judgment, and that even when the facts are construed in favor of the 
Vespers, reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion: the challenged actions by 
Otterbein were not unfair, deceptive, or unconscionable for purposes of the CSPA. For the 
foregoing reasons, we overrule the Vespers' second assignment of error. 
{¶48} Assignment of Error No. 1: 
{¶49} THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
DISMISSING THE CLAIMS OF APPELLANT CATHERINE VESPER. 
{¶50} In their first assignment of error, the Vespers contend that the trial court erred 
in its determination that Catherine was not a "consumer" under the CSPA with respect to 
her involvement with Otterbein. However, given this court's re solution of the second 
assignment of error, the issue is moot and need not be addresse d. App.R. 12(A)(1)(c). 
Accordingly, we overrule the Vespers' first assignment of error. 

{¶51} For all of these reasons, and based on our review of the record, we affirm the 
trial court's decision to grant Otterbein's motion for summary judgment and to deny the 
Vespers' motion for summary judgment. 
{¶52} Judgment affirmed. 

 PIPER, P.J., and M. POWELL, J., concur.