24-2339-cv 
Collins v. Ne. Grocery, LLC 
In the 
United States Court of Appeals 
For the Second Circuit 
________ 

AUGUST TERM 2024 

ARGUED: MARCH 10, 2025 
DECIDED: AUGUST 18, 2025 

No. 24-2339-cv 

GAIL COLLINS, DEAN DEVITO, MICHAEL LAMOUREUX, SCOTT LOBDELL, 
individually, on behalf of the Northeast Grocery, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan 
and on behalf of all similarly situated participants and beneficiaries of the 
Plan, 
Plaintiffs-Appellants, 

v. 

NORTHEAST GROCERY, INC., THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE 
NORTHEAST GROCERY, INC. 401(K) SAVINGS PLAN, JOHN AND JANE 
DOES 1-30, in their capacities as Members of the Administrative 
Committee, 
Defendants-Appellees.* 
________ 

* The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the caption as set 
forth above. 
 2 No. 24-2339-cv 

Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the Northern District of New York. 
________ 

Before: WALKER, WESLEY, and BIANCO, Circuit Judges. 
________ 
Former grocery store employees who are participants in an 
employer-sponsored defined contribution retirement benefit plan 
brought a putative class action under the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 1001 
et seq., on behalf of the Northeast Grocery 401(k) Plan (the “Plan”) and 
similarly situated Plan participants, against various fiduciaries of the 
Plan. T he district court (Hurd, J.) dismissed for lack of Article III 
standing aspects of Plaintiffs’ claims that the Plan mismanaged 
workers’ retirement savings by failing to follow a prudent process for 
administering the Plan and by failing to act in the exclusive interest 
of Plan participants. 
In this opinion we address Plaintiffs’ challenge to the district 
court’s dismissal of their claims for lack of standing. We address the 
district court’s dismissal of Plaintiffs’ remaining claims for failure to 
state a claim and its denial of leave to amend in a summary order 
issued simultaneously with this opinion. 
Participants in a defined contribution benefit plan governed by 
ERISA must plausibly plead a constitutionally-cognizable individual 
injury to establish that they have Article III standing to obtain 
monetary relief for alleged ERISA violations . We agree with the 
district court that Plaintiffs here lack Article III standing because they 
did not allege that they suffered any financial loss affecting their 
individual retirement accounts arising from Defendants’ allegedly 
imprudent share class selection and failure to investigate the 
 3 No. 24-2339-cv 

availability of alternative funds, or from Defendants’ alleged breach 
of fiduciary duty in providing indirect compensation to the Plan’s 
recordkeeper. Plaintiffs had not directed their retirement 
contributions into the allegedly imprudently or disloyally managed 
investment options and thus did not allege any individual injury 
arising from Defendants’ management of those options. Moreover, 
because Plaintiffs did not plausibly allege that they personally 
suffered any injury, they also lack class standing to assert their share-
class claim, alternative fund claim, and indirect compensation claims 
on behalf of the class. 
For the reasons set forth below and in the summary order, we 
AFFIRM IN PART and VACATE IN PART the judgment of the 
district court and remand for further proceedings consistent with this 
opinion and the summary order. 
________ 

PAUL J. SHARMAN, The Sharman Law Firm LLC , 
Alpharetta, Georgia, for Plaintiffs-Appellants. 
ERIKA N. D. STANAT, Harter Secrest & Emery LLP, 
Rochester, New York (Michael -Anthony Jaoude , 
Harter Secrest & Emery LLP, Buffalo, New York , 
on the brief), for Defendants-Appellees. 
________ 
JOHN M. WALKER, JR., Circuit Judge: 
Former grocery store employees who are participants in an 
employer-sponsored defined contribution retirement benefit plan 
brought a putative class action under the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 1001 
et seq., on behalf of the Northeast Grocery 401(k) Plan (the “Plan”) and 
 4 No. 24-2339-cv 

similarly situated Plan participants, against various fiduciaries of the 
Plan. T he district court (Hurd, J.) dismissed for lack of Article III 
standing aspects of Plaintiffs’ claims that the Plan mismanaged 
workers’ retirement savings by failing to follow a prudent process for 
administering the Plan and by failing to act in the exclusive interest 
of Plan participants. 
In this opinion we address Plaintiffs’ challenge to the district 
court’s dismissal of their claims for lack of standing. We address the 
district court’s dismissal of Plaintiffs’ remaining claims for failure to 
state a claim and its denial of leave to amend in a summary or der 
issued simultaneously with this opinion. 
Participants in a defined contribution benefit plan governed by 
ERISA must plausibly plead a constitutionally-cognizable individual 
injury to establish that they have Article III standing to obtain 
monetary relief for alleged ERISA violations. We agree with the 
district court that Plaintiffs here lack Article III standing because they 
did not allege that they suffered any financial loss affecting their 
individual retirement accounts arising from Defendants’ allegedly 
imprudent share class selection and fai lure to investigate the 
availability of alternative funds, or from Defendants’ alleged breach 
of fiduciary duty in providing indirect compensation to the Plan’s 
recordkeeper. Plaintiffs had not directed their retirement 
contributions into the allegedly imprudently or disloyally managed 
investment options and thus did not allege any individual injury 
arising from Defendants’ management of those options. Moreover, 
because Plain tiffs did not plausibly allege that they personally 
suffered any injury, they also lack class standing to assert their share-
class claim, alternative fund claim, and indirect compensation claims 
on behalf of the class. 
 5 No. 24-2339-cv 

For the reasons set forth below and in the summary order, we 
AFFIRM the judgment of the district court. 
BACKGROUND1 
Plaintiffs are four former employees of Tops Market and Price 
Chopper Supermarkets and participants in the Northeast Grocery 
401(k) Savings Plan (the “Plan”), an employee pension benefit plan 
covered by ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1001 et seq. Plaintiffs assert that the 
Plan’s fiduciaries mismanaged the Plan and violated ERISA. They 
brought this action on behalf of themselves, the Plan, and a proposed 
class of participants and beneficiaries of the Plan as of January 1, 2018. 
Plaintiffs sought , inter alia, disgorgement and injunctive relief, 
including the replacement of some of the Plan’s fiduciaries. 
Defendants are fiduciaries of the Plan: the P lan’s sponsor, 
Northeast Grocery , Inc. (the post -merger parent company of Tops 
Market and Price Chopper Supermarkets); the Plan’s administrator, 
the Administrative Committee of The Northeast Grocery 401(k) 
Savings Plan (the “Committee”); and the Committee’s members, John 
and Jane Does 1-30 , in their capacity as fiduciaries of the Plan 
(collectively, “Defendants”). 
The Plan is a defined contribution plan , which means that it 
“provides for an individual account for each participant and for 
benefits based solely upon the amount contributed to the participant’s 
account, and any income, expenses, gains and losses, and any 
forfeitures of accounts of other participants which may be allocated 
to such participant’s account.” 29 U.S.C. § 1002(34). Put differently, 
participants in such a plan “ maintain individual investment 
accounts,” for which the accounts’ value “is determined by the market 

1 We draw our presentation of the facts from Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 6 No. 24-2339-cv 

performance of employee and employer contributions, less 
expenses.” Cunningham v. Cornell Univ. , 86 F.4th 961, 969 (2d Cir. 
2023) (quoting Tibble v. Edison Int’l, 575 U.S. 523, 525 (2015)), rev'd and 
remanded on other grounds, 145 S. Ct. 1020 (2025). The Plan’s 
administrators select for plan participants a menu of investment 
options, from which the participants themselves choose where to 
invest their retirement contributions. Id. 
Here, the Plan provided participants with a menu of twenty -
eight pre-selected investment options. Plaintiff Gail Collins invested 
her retirement contributions in the Wells Fargo Stable Return Fund, 
Lord Abbett Multi -Asset Balanced Fund, Dreyfus Strategic Value 
Fund, and T . Rowe Price Blue Chip Growth I Fund. P laintiff Scott 
Lobdell invested his retirement contributions in the MFS Value R6 
Fund, the T. Rowe Price Blue Chip Growth I Fund, and the American 
Funds NewPrsp R6 Fund. Plaintiffs Dean DeVito and Michael 
Lamoureux invested their Plan assets in “one or more of the funds” 
discussed in the complaint , though the complaint did not specify 
which ones. Compl. ¶¶ 16, 18, App’x 10. 
Plaintiffs sought relief for Defendants’ allegedly imprudent 
and disloyal management of the Plan under 29 U.S.C. §§ 1132(a)(2) 
and (a)(3).
2 Their complaint principally alleged that Defendants 

2 Section 1132(a)(2) provides that a plan participant or beneficiary may 
bring a civil action to obtain “appropriate relief under section 1109 of this 
title.” 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a)(2). Section 1109 provides: “Any person who is a 
fiduciary with respect to a plan who breaches any of the responsibilities, 
obligations, or duties imposed upon fiduciaries by this subchapter shall be 
personally liable to make good to such plan any losses to the plan resulting 
from each such breach, and to restore to such plan any profits of such 
fiduciary which have been made through use of assets of the plan by the 

 7 No. 24-2339-cv 

failed to establish a prudent process to select and monitor the Plan’s 
investments, performance, and fees by failing to investigate the 
availability of lower -cost, equally or better performing share classes 
and alternative funds; monitor the performance of fund managers; 
monitor and control the performance and related trust costs of the 
Plan’s investment adviser; and monitor and control recordkeeper 
fees. Plaintiffs also asserted that Defendants failed to act in the 
exclusive interest of plan participants by seeking “open-ended 
investment company revenue-sharing dollars” for their own benefit. 
Compl. ¶ 123, App’x 31. The seven-count complaint asserted claims 
for breaches of ERISA’s duties of prudence and loyalty, in violation 
of 29 U.S.C. § 1104(a)(1); co-fiduciary liability under § 1105; breach of 
ERISA’s duty to monitor
3; engaging in prohibited transactions, in 
violation of §§ 1106(a)-(b); and breach of fiduciary duty by omission. 

fiduciary, and shall be subject to such other equitable or remedial relief as 
the court may deem appropriate, including removal of such fiduciary.” Id. 
§ 1109(a). Although ERISA “does not provide a remedy for individual 
injuries distinct from plan injuries,” it does “authorize recovery for 
fiduciary breaches that impair the value of plan assets in a participant’s 
individual account.” LaRue v. DeWolff, Boberg & Assocs., Inc. , 552 U.S. 248, 
256 (2008). 
Section 1132(a)(3) provides that a plan participant or beneficiary may 
bring a civil action “(A) to enjoin any act or practice which violates any 
provision of this subchapter or the terms of the plan, or (B) to obtain other 
appropriate equitable relief (i) to redress such violations or (ii) to enforce 
any provisions of this subchapter or the terms of the plan.” 29 U.S.C. 
§ 1132(a)(3). 
3 ERISA does not expressly require that plan fiduciaries who appoint 
other plan fiduciaries monitor thos e appointed fiduciaries (here, that 

 8 No. 24-2339-cv 

The district court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss the 
complaint. It held that Plaintiffs fail ed to establish that they had 
Article III standing to bring claims alleging fiduciary breaches arising 
from Defendants’ share class selection , failure to investigate the 
availability of alternative funds, and revenue sharing . In particular, 
the court found that Plaintiffs had not alleged any constitutionally-
cognizable injury in connection with the specific investment options 
criticized in the complaint in which Plaintiffs did not invest . By 
contrast, it held that Plaintiffs had standing to allege fiduciary 
breaches arising from Defendants’ failure to monitor the performance 
of the portfolio managers of three funds, the Plan’s investment 
manager’s performance and costs, and the Plan’s direct compensation 
of its recordkeeper. 
The district court then dismissed the remaining claims for 
which Plaintiffs had standing for failure to state a claim and 
dismissed the complaint with prejudice, denying Plaintiffs leave to 
amend. 
In addressing the standing factors, the district court observed 
that “[t]he Second Circuit has not definitively resolved the issue of 
whether and to what extent participants of a defined contribution 
plan must demonstrate individual harm in order to bring claims 
concerning funds that they did not personally invest in.” App’x 68 

Northeast Grocery, as the Plan’s sponsor, monitor members of the 
Committee). We have nonetheless recognized that a plaintiff may assert a 
“derivative” claim against the appointing fiduciary for its failure to monitor 
the appointed fiduciaries in an underlying breach of a fiduciary duty . 
Rinehart v. Lehman Bros. Holdings Inc., 817 F.3d 56, 68 (2d Cir. 2016) (per 
curiam) (holding that plaintiffs “cannot maintain a claim for breach of the 
duty to monitor [ against appointing defendants] absent an underlying 
breach of the duties imposed under ERISA” by appointed defendants). 
 9 No. 24-2339-cv 

(citing Garthwait v. Eversource Energy Co., 3:20-CV -00902(JCH), 2022 
WL 1657469, at *7 (D. Conn. May 25, 2022)). T his observation 
prompted this opinion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
We review de novo a district court’s determination o n 
standing. Am. Psychiatric Ass’n v. Anthem Health Plans, Inc., 821 F.3d 
352, 357 (2d Cir. 2016). When standing is challenged on the face of the 
pleadings, as here, we “accept as true all material allegations of the 
complaint, and must construe the complaint in favor of the 
complaining party.” Id. (quotation marks omitted). Factual 
allegations of standing must be plausible and nonconclusory to 
survive a motion to dismiss. Amidax Trading Grp. v. S.W.I.F.T. SCRL , 
671 F.3d 140, 145–46 (2d Cir. 2011) (per curiam) (applying the 
pleading standards of Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662 (2009), and Bell 
Atl. Corp. v. Twombly , 550 U.S. 544 (2007), to a motion to dismiss for 
lack of standing under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1)). 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs must establish for each claim that they have what we 
previously called “statutory standing,” a “statutory cause of action to 
sue a defendant over the defendant’s violation of federal law,” 
TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594 U.S. 413, 426 (2021);
4 constitutional, or 

4 We retired the appellation “statutory standing” because “statutory 
standing in fact is not a standing issue, but simply a question of whether 
the particular plaintiff has a cause of action under the statute .” Am. 
Psychiatric Ass’n, 821 F.3d at 359 (quotation marks omitted)). We recognize 
the defunct term here solely to help clarify apparent confusion regarding 
the various forms of standing in the context of defined contribution plan 

 10 No. 24-2339-cv 

Article III, standing (a constitutionally-cognizable injury arising from 
the defendant’s breach of the statutorily imposed duty); and, because 
this is a putative class action, “class standing” (standing to bring class 
claims on behalf of absent class members). Am. Psychiatric Ass’n , 821 
F.3d at 358-59 (discussing constitutional standing) ; NECA-IBEW 
Health & Welfare Fund v. Goldman Sachs & Co. (“NECA”), 693 F.3d 145, 
158 & n.9 (2d Cir. 2012) (discussing class standing); Ret. Bd. of the 
Policemen's Annuity & Ben. Fund of the City of Chicago v. Bank of N.Y. 
Mellon (“Ret. Bd.”), 775 F.3d 154, 160-61 (2d Cir. 2014) (same). 
There is no dispute that ERISA gives Plaintiffs a cause of action 
to sue Defendants . ERISA is a “comprehensive federal statute ” that 
regulates employee benefit plans, as well as the fiduciaries who act 
on behalf of plan participants and beneficiaries. Haley v. Tchrs. Ins. & 
Annuity Ass'n of Am. , 54 F.4th 115, 119 (2d Cir. 2022). To achieve its 
goal of “protect[ing] . . . individual pension rights,” H.R. Rep. No. 93-
533, at 1 (1974), ERISA imposes “standards of conduct, responsibility, 
and obligation[s]” on plan fiduciaries, Pilot Life Ins. Co. v. Dedeaux, 481 
U.S. 41, 44 (1987) (quoting 29 U.S.C. § 1001(b)). These standards are 
among “the highest known to the law.” Flanigan v. Gen. Elec. Co., 242 
F.3d 78, 86 (2d Cir. 2001) (quotation marks omitted). ERISA creates a 
private right of action for plan participants such as Plaintiffs to sue 
for relief for an alleged ERISA violation. See 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a). 
Plaintiffs, who are Plan participants, allege various ERISA violations. 
But this “does not necessarily provide constitutional standing,” Cent. 
States Se. & Sw. Areas Health & Welfare Fund v. Merck- Medco Managed 
Care, L.L.C., 433 F.3d 181, 199 (2d Cir. 2005) (quotation marks 
omitted), or class standing. 

participants’ ERISA claims. In acknowledging the term, w e do not intend 
to bring it out of retirement. 
 11 No. 24-2339-cv 

Here, Plaintiffs lack both Article III and class standing to assert 
several of their claims because they did not plead that they suffered 
any individual harm arising from Defendants’ allegedly imprudent 
and/or disloyal management of investment options in which they did 
not personally invest or any plan-wide harm affecting their 
individual accounts. Similarly, they failed to plead any individual 
harm arising from Defendants’ compensation of the Plan’s 
recordkeeper via revenue sharing fees for funds in which Plaintiffs 
did not personally invest. 
We address Plaintiffs’ individual standing and class standing 
in turn , accepting the district court’s invitation to clarify our 
standards applicable to the standing of a defined contribution plan 
plaintiff individually and on behalf of a putative class. 
I. Individual Standing 
Article III of the Constitution “confines the federal judicial 
power to the resolution of ‘Cases’ and ‘Controversies.’” TransUnion 
LLC, 594 U.S. at 423 (quoting U.S. Const. art. III, § 2). To establish that 
they have the requisite “personal stake” in each of their claims , 
Plaintiffs must allege that they suffered an injury that: (1) is “concrete, 
particularized, and actual or imminent”; (2) was likely caused by the 
acts or omissions of the defendant; and (3) will likely be redressed by 
the requested judicial relief. Id. (quotation marks omitted) . “ If the 
plaintiff does not claim to have suffered an injury that the defendant 
caused and the court can remedy, there is no case or controversy for 
the federal court to resolve.” Id. (internal quotation marks and 
citation omitted). 
Our precedent demonstrates that defined contribution plan 
participants seeking to obtain monetary relief for alleged ERISA 
violations must allege a non -speculative financial loss actually 
 12 No. 24-2339-cv 

affecting, or imminently threatening to affect, their individual 
retirement accounts. See Cent. States Se., 433 F.3d at 200 (“Obtaining 
restitution or disgorgement under ERISA requires that a plaintiff 
satisfy the strictures of constitutional standing by demonstrating 
individual loss .” ( internal quotation marks omitted) (alteration 
accepted)); Kendall v. Emps. Ret. Plan of Avon Prods., 561 F.3d 112, 121-
22 & n.15 (2d Cir. 2009) (affirming dismissal for lack of standing for 
plaintiff’s failure to allege “an identifiable and quantifiable injury” 
that was “specific to her”), abrogated in part on other grounds as 
recognized in Am. Psychiatric Ass’n, 821 F.3d at 359; Taveras v. UBS AG, 
612 F. App’x 27, 29 (2d Cir. 2015) (summary order) (affirming 
dismissal for lack of standing where plaintiff alleged “injury to [the] 
plan but not individualized injury to the plan participant”); see also 
Thole v. U.S. Bank, 590 U.S. 538, 541 (2020) (affirming dismissal of 
defined benefit plan participants’ claim for lack of standing where 
plaintiffs failed to demonstrate actual or threatened individual 
financial loss arising from defendants’ alleged ERISA violations). 
For some of their claims, Plaintiffs satisfactorily alleged that all 
Plan participants were harmed by Defendants’ purported fiduciary 
breaches (failure to monitor the performance and compensation of the 
Plan’s investment manager , and compensation of the Plan’s 
recordkeeper) or that specific plaintiffs were harmed in a manner that 
also injured other plan participants (failure to monitor the portfolio 
managers of three funds, in one of which plaintiffs Collins and Lobell 
invested their retirement assets). For others, however, Plaintiffs failed 
to allege that their benefits were or would imminently be affected by 
the performance of, or by fees associated with, investment options in 
which they did not personally invest . Further, they failed to allege 
individual harm from the allegedly flawed processes resulting in the 
retention of the criticized investment options or the retention of 
 13 No. 24-2339-cv 

Committee members who retained the criticized funds. Plaintiffs’ 
conclusory allegations of plan-wide mismanagement did not 
plausibly allege that Defendants’ purported misconduct affected all 
plan participants, including them . Accordingly, t he district court 
correctly dismissed on Article III standing grounds Plaintiffs’ claims 
for (1) breach of the duty of prudence based on a failure to investigate 
the availability of alternative share classes; (2) breach of the duty of 
prudence based on a failure to inve stigate the availability of 
alternative funds; (3) breach of the duty of prudence based on 
Defendants’ failure to monitor indirect recordkeeper costs; and 
(4) breach of the duty of loyalty regarding funds with revenue 
sharing. We address each claim in turn. 
A. Failure to Investigate the Availability of Alternative Share 
Classes 
The complaint asserted that the Committee acted imprudently 
by failing to investigate the availability of lower -cost and equally or 
better performing share classes. The existence of less expensive and 
equal and/or better performing share classes for a particular fund may 
support an inference that a fiduciary acted in violation of ERISA by 
imprudently selecting and/or failing to properly monitor and remove 
the more expensive share class. See Sacerdote v. N.Y. Univ., 9 F.4th 95, 
108-10 (2d Cir. 2021). Plaintiffs, however, lack Article III standing to 
press their share-class claim. See Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U.S. 330, 
341 (2016) (rejecting the proposition that “a plaintiff automatically 
satisfies the injury -in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a 
person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue 
to vindicate that right”); TransUnion, 594 U.S. at 426-27. 
Plaintiffs did not allege that they suffered any individual injury 
arising from Defendants’ failure to investigate the availability of 
 14 No. 24-2339-cv 

lower-cost and equally or better performing share classes. T he 
complaint identified three investment options whereby the 
Committee, despite the availability of better alternatives, allegedly 
chose more expensive share classes: the T. Rowe Price Retirement 
Trust “A” target date series, the Loomis Sayles Small Cap Value Fund, 
and the Loomis Sayles Small Cap Growth Fund. But the complaint 
did not allege that any Pl aintiff invested in any of these imprudent 
funds. Nor did it allege , in a non -conclusory fashion, that any 
Plaintiff invested in any other fund for which lower-cost and equal -
or-better-performing share classes were available. ERISA “does not 
confer a right to every plan participant to sue the plan fiduciary for 
alleged ERISA violations without a showing that they were injured 
by the alleged breach of the duty ,” which Plaintiffs failed to do here. 
Kendall, 561 F.3d at 120. 
Plaintiffs argue that they pled facts from which the district 
court should have drawn an inference that Defendants’ alleged 
imprudence injured them. They reason as follows: b y mishandling 
the specified funds, Defendants demonstrated that the management 
of all funds was flawed and, inferentially, that all accounts were 
injured. See Compl. ¶ 58, App’x 19 (asserting with regard to Plaintiffs’ 
alternative funds claim that “[a] reasonable inference is that if the 
Committee’s plan -wide decision -making was flawed” as to certain 
investment options, “that same flawed decision -making affected 
every other choice made for the limited participant menu of 28 
offerings”); see also Pls.’ Br. 11 -14 (arguing same as to their other 
claims). This conclusory assertion does not demonstrate that 
Plaintiffs suffered “an invasion of [their ] legally protected interest” 
that affected them in a “personal and individual way,” as the 
constitution requires. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 560 
& n.1 (1992). We decline Plaintiffs’ invitation to speculate that there 
 15 No. 24-2339-cv 

were injuries to their own investment accounts based on the alleged 
retention of more expensive share classes in three of twenty-eight 
investment options , in which no Plaintiff chose to invest his or her 
retirement assets, and their similar invitation to speculate about 
harms that they did not plead with respect to their other claims. 
B. Failure to Investigate the Availability of Lower-Cost, 
Better Performing Alternative Funds 
Next, the complaint asserted that the Committee imprudently 
failed to investigate the availability of lower-cost, better performing 
alternative funds. It identified two allegedly expensive and/or 
underperforming investment options resulting in millions of dollars 
of lost opportunity costs to Plan participants: the Loomis Sayles Small 
Cap Value Fund and the Fidelity Freedom 2030 Fund. T he existence 
of lower -cost, better performing alternative funds , when combined 
with other circumstantial evidence of imprudence, may support an 
inference that a fiduciary breached its duty of prudence by failing to 
monitor investments and remove imprudent options . See Pension 
Benefit Guar. Corp. ex rel. St. Vincent Cath. Med. Ctrs. Ret. Plan v. Morgan 
Stanley Inv. Mgmt. Inc., 712 F.3d 705, 721 (2d Cir. 2013) . Plaintiffs’ 
statutory cause of action to assert an alternative fund-based 
imprudence claim , however, did not confer Article III standing . 
Again, Plaintiffs did not allege any personal injury arising from the 
Committee’s allegedly imprudent retention of the two lower-
performing, higher-cost funds . N o Plaintiff invested in either fund, 
and the complaint did not allege in a non-conclusory fashion that any 
of the funds in which Plaintiffs did invest suffered the same defects. 
 16 No. 24-2339-cv 

C. Failure to Monitor Indirect Recordkeeping Fees 
The complaint further alleged that the Committee acted 
imprudently by permitting the Plan’s recordkeeper, Fidelity 
Management (“Fidelity”), to receive excessive compensation through 
funds with a revenue sharing scheme that indirectly compensated 
Fidelity. A llegations of excessive fees in relation to the services 
rendered may raise an inference of imprudence , see Singh v. Deloitte 
LLP, 123 F.4th 88, 93-95 (2d Cir. 2024), but, again, Plaintiffs’ statutory 
standing did not establish that they also had Article III standing to 
press their revenue sharing-based imprudence claim. 
Plaintiffs did not plead that they were individually harmed by 
Defendants’ failure to monitor the revenue sharing scheme. Plaintiffs 
identified only one fund, the Victory Small Company Fund , as an 
investment option for which a percentage of the plan’s assets were 
improperly “diverted” to Fidelity . Compl. ¶¶ 92, 107, App’x 25, 29. 
The complaint, however, did not allege that any Plaintiff invested in 
that fund or, in a non-conclusory fashion, that any Plaintiff invested 
in any other fund with revenue sharing . It thus did not allege any 
injury to any Plaintiff arising from the failure to monitor the use of 
revenue sharing. 
D. Breach of the Duty of Loyalty 
The complaint also alleged that the Committee breached its 
duty of loyalty by including certain excessively costly funds with 
revenue sharing that benefited the Committee at the expense of Plan 
participants. Plaintiffs identified two higher -cost funds allegedly 
selected for disloyal reasons: the Blackrock Total Return Fund and the 
Dodge & Cox International Fund. Because Plaintiffs did not allege 
that they invested in either fund , or in any other specific high-cost 
 17 No. 24-2339-cv 

fund with revenue sharing , Plaintiffs did not allege any injury to 
themselves arising from the allegedly disloyally -selected investment 
options. 
E. Standing Generally 
Finally, we address Plaintiffs’ erroneous contention that t he 
fact that they have standing as to some of their claims means that they 
have standing to bring all of their claims. Standing is “not dispensed 
in gross.” TransUnion, 594 U.S. at 431. To withstand a motion to 
dismiss for lack of standing, Plaintiffs must demonstrate that one or 
more of the individual plaintiffs can press each of their claims for each 
form of relief sought. Id. They have not. 
II. Plaintiffs’ Class Standing 
Plaintiffs, who are suing on behalf of a proposed class, also did 
not plausibly allege that they ha d “class standing” to proceed with 
the claims for which they lack Article III standing. Again, to establish 
“class standing,” a showing of individual injury is required. 
We agree with Plaintiffs and the district court that members of 
a defined contribution plan who chose certain investment options 
may in certain circumstances bring claims on behalf of other 
participants that chose entirely different investment options . 
Plaintiffs, however, may only challenge, on behalf of the class , 
Defendants’ “general practices which affect all participants,” 
including Plaintiffs, Pls. Br. at 9 (emphasis added), or Defendants’ 
practices that are sufficiently similar to the practices caus ing, or 
imminently threatening to cause, harm to P laintiffs’ individual 
retirement benefits. This is because o ur class standing test permits 
Plaintiffs to assert claims on behalf of absent class members only if 
they plausibly allege d “(1) that [they] personally ha[ve] suffered 
 18 No. 24-2339-cv 

some actual injury as a result of the [purportedly] illegal conduct of 
the defendant, and (2) that such conduct implicates the same set of 
concerns as the conduct alleged to have caused injury to other 
members of the putative class by the same defendants.” NECA, 693 
F.3d at 162 (ellipsis, internal quotation marks, and citations omitted). 
For the reasons described above, Plaintiffs failed the first step of our 
class standing test because they did not plausibly plead that they 
suffered any individual injury in connection with the identified 
claims. 
Plaintiffs’ theory of standing is inconsonant with our class 
standing test, which was designed to ensure that a named plaintiff 
may “properly assert claims” on behalf of absent class members 
because his l itigation incentives “are sufficiently aligned with those 
of the absent class members.” Ret. Bd., 775 F.3d at 161. Alignment 
occurs when the proof that a named plaintiff develops for his 
individual claims tends to prove the class claims. See id. at 161-62. We 
cannot conclude that P laintiffs’ claims implicate the “same set of 
concerns” as absent class members’ claims because, without any 
showing of an individual injury, we cannot find that Plaintiffs have 
any proof of their own claims, let alone that proof supporting their 
claims would tend to prove the class claims. See NECA, 693 F.3d at 
162-63 (reasoning that even if a named plaintiff’s injury may “flow 
from” the same source as other class members’ injuries, we cannot 
conclude that the respective injuries “implicate [ ] the same set of 
concerns” if they have “the potential to be very different” and might 
well “turn on very different proof”). 
Plaintiffs, as some district courts have done, would sidestep the 
failure to plead any actual injury by extend ing our decision in Long 
Island Head Start Child Development Services, Inc. v. Economic 
Opportunity Commission of Nassau County (“Head Start”) to hold that a 
 19 No. 24-2339-cv 

defined contribution plan participant has standing to obtain 
monetary relief when he alleges an injury to the Plan as a whole, 
whether or not that participant has demonstrated an individual loss. 
710 F.3d 57 (2d Cir. 2013). Head Start stated in a footnote that 
participants in an employee welfare benefit plan who “asserted their 
claims in a derivative capacity” had standing to “recover for injuries 
to the Plan caused by the Administrators’ breach of their fiduciary 
duties.” Id. at 67 n.5. Relying on that footnote, Plaintiffs argue that 
they have standing to bring claims on behalf of the Plan because “the 
fact that only some of the[ ] alleged losses manifested themselves in 
[Plaintiffs’] individual accounts does not deprive [them] of standing 
to seek redress on behalf of the Plan for the broader injuries the Plan 
incurred.” Pls.’ Br. at 13. We think Plaintiffs read Head Start too 
broadly. 
Head Start is not precedent for the proposition that Plaintiffs 
have Article III standing absent individualized financial harm. I ts 
facts preclude such a reading. T he Head Start plaintiffs suffered a 
financial injury: the defendants’ misconduct rendered the plan unable 
to satisfy a judgment for the plaintiffs of more than $700,000. See 710 
F.3d at 63. 
Head Start also cannot stand for that proposition as a matter of 
logic. Losses to defined contribution plan participants’ individual 
accounts arising from an ERISA violation are losses to the plan , 
because a ll assets in a plan, including contributions allocated to 
individual accounts for bookkeeping purposes, are plan assets. See 29 
U.S.C. § 1002(34); LaRue v. DeWolff, Boberg & Assocs., Inc., 552 U.S. 248, 
262 (2008) (Thomas, J., concurring). But that logic does not always 
work in reverse. Losses to plan assets arising from an ERISA violation 
are not necessarily losses to an individual participant, vesting that 
participant with a personal stake in a case or controversy. See Taveras, 
 20 No. 24-2339-cv 

612 F. App’x at 29 (rejecting plaintiff’s similar theory of standing 
because “[i]t was possible that the [plan] lost value while [her ] 
individual account did not”). 
Finally, ERISA plaintiffs cannot rectify a deficient showing of 
an injury -in-fact by asserting that they ha ve standing as 
representatives of the plan. See Thole, 590 U.S. at 543 (holding that 
plaintiffs lacked Article III standing to sue as representatives of a plan 
because they had not alleged any concrete and particularized injuries 
attributable to the alleged mismanagement ). “[I]n order to claim the 
interests of others, [Plaintiffs] themselves still must have suffered an 
injury in fact, thus giving them a sufficiently concrete interest in the 
outcome of the issue in dispute.” Id. at 543 (quotation marks omitted). 
CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons and for the reasons set forth in the 
summary order issued simultaneously with this opinion, we AFFIRM 
IN PART and VACATE IN PART the judgment of the district court 
and remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion and 
the summary order.