18-1170 
Exxon Mobil v. Healey 
United States Court of Appeals 
For the Second Circuit 

August Term 2019 

Argued: February 18, 2020 
Decided: March 15, 2022 

No. 18-1170 

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION, 

Plaintiff-Appellant, 

v. 

MAURA TRACY HEALEY, in her official capacity as ATTORNEY GENERAL OF 
MASSACHUSETTS, and LETITIA JAMES, in her official capacity as ATTORNEY 
GENERAL OF NEW YORK,* 

Defendants-Appellees. 

Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the Southern District of New York 
No. 17-cv-2301, Valerie Caproni, Judge. 

Before: KEARSE, SULLIVAN, AND BIANCO, Circuit Judges. 

* The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the caption as set forth above. Additionally, 
pursuant to Rule 43(c)(2) of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, Attorney General Letitia 
James is automatically substituted as a Defendant -Appellee for the former Attorney General of 
New York, Barbara D. Underwood. 

Plaintiff-Appellant Exxon Mobil Corporation appeals the dismissal of its 
complaint against the New York and Massachusetts Attorneys General, which 
alleged that the states’ investigations into Exxon’s purportedly deceptive speech 
regarding climate change were motivated by viewpoint discrimination and 
violated Exxon’s constitutional rights . During the pendency of this appeal, the 
New York Attorney General closed the New York investigation and commenced 
an enforcement action, which resolved in Exxon’s favor and is not being appealed 
by the state. Because these events have mooted Exxon ’s claims against the New 
York Attorney General, we lack jurisdiction over those claims . As t o Exxon’s 
claims against the Massachusetts Attorney General, Exxon could have pursued the 
relief it now seeks in an earlier Massachusetts state court proceeding arising from 
the same events that underlie the present suit; its claims against the Massachusetts 
Attorney General are thus barred under the doctrine of res judicata. 
We therefore dismiss the appeal as to the New York Attorney General and 
affirm the district court’s judgment as to the Massachusetts Attorney General. 

 D
ISMISSED IN PART AND AFFIRMED IN PART. 

JUSTIN ANDERSON, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, 
Wharton & Garrison LLP, Washington, District of 
Columbia (Theodore V. Wells, Jr., Daniel J. Toal, 
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP , 
New York, New York; Patrick J. Conlon, Daniel E. 
Bolia, Exxon Mobil Corporation, Spring, Texas, on 
the brief) , for Plaintiff-Appellant Exxon Mobil 
Corporation. 

S
ETH SCHOFIELD, Assistant Attorney General 
(Richard A. Johnston, Melissa A. Hoffer, 
Christophe G. Courchesne, Amand a Morejon, 
Assistant Attorney s General, on the brief), for 
Maura T. Healey, Attorney General of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Office of the 
Attorney General of Massachusetts, Boston, 
Massachusetts, for Defendant- Appellee Attorney 
General of Massachusetts. 

ANISHA S. DASGUPTA, Deputy Solicitor General 
(Scott A. Eisman, Assistant Solicitor General, on the 
brief), for Letitia James, Attorney General of the 
State of New York, New York, New York, for 
Defendant-Appellee Attorney General of New York. 

Jeffrey C. Mateer, First Assistant Attorney 
General, Brantley D. Starr, Deputy First Assistant 
Attorney General, James E. Davis, Deputy 
Attorney General for Civil Litigation, David J. 
Hacker, Special Counsel for Civil Litigation, for 
Ken Paxton, Attorney G eneral of Texas, Austin, 
Texas; Steve Marshall, Attorney General of 
Alabama; Leslie Rutledge, Attorney General of 
Arkansas; Christopher M. Carr, Attorney General 
of Georgia; Jeff Landry, Attorney General of 
Louisiana; Paul R. LePage, Governor of Maine; 
Phil Bryant, Governor of Mississippi; Doug 
Peterson, Attorney General of Nebraska; Mike 
Hunter, Attorney General of Oklahoma; Alan 
Wilson, Attorney General of South Carolina; Brad 
Schimel, Attorney General of Wisconsin, for Amici 
Curiae States of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, 
Louisiana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Carolina, 
Texas, and Wisconsin, and Phil Bryant, Governor 
of Mississippi and Paul R. LePage, Governor of 
Maine in support of Plaintiff-Appellant. 

Megan L. Brown, Richard W. Smith, Wiley Rein 
LLP, Washington, District of Columbia, for Amici 
Curiae National Association of Manufacturers and 
Chamber of Commerce of the United States of 
America in support of Plaintiff-Appellant. 

Shanna M. Cleveland, Ronald A. Fein, Lisa 
Danetz, Free Speech for People, Newton, 
Massachusetts, and Steven H. Shiffrin, Cornell 
Law School, Ithaca, N ew York , for Amici Curiae 
Michael C. Dorf, Robert S. Stevens Professor of 
Law, Cornell Law School; Daniel J.H. Greenwood, 
Professor of Law, Deane School of Law, Hofstra 
University; Steven Heyman, Professor of Law, 
Chicago-Kent College of Law; Robert Kerr, Edith 
Kinney Gaylord Presidential Professor, Gaylord 
College, University of Oklahoma; Douglas Kysar, 
Deputy Dean and Joseph M. Field ’55 Professor of 
Law, Yale Law School; Helen No rton, Professor 
and Ira C. Rothgerber, Jr. Chair in Constitutional 
Law, University of Colorado School of Law; 
Tamara R. Piety, Professor of Law, University of 
Tulsa, College of Law; Frank Pasquale, Professor 
of Law, University of Maryland; Catherine J. Ross, 
Fred C. Stevenson Research Professor, George 
Washington University Law School; and Laurence 
H. Tribe, Carl M. Loeb University Professor and 
Professor of Constitutional Law, Harvard Law 
School in support of Defendants-Appellees. 

Edward Notis-McConarty, M. Patrick Moore, Jr., 
Vanessa A. Arslanian, Hemenway & Barnes LLP, 
Boston, MA, for Amici Curiae Martha Coakley, 
Thomas Reilly, Scott Harshbarger, James M. 
Shannon, and Francis X. Bellotti, Former Attorneys 
General of Massachusetts in support of Defendants-
Appellees. 

Jillian A. Lazar, Director of Investor Protection, 
Marion Quirk, Joseph E. Gibbs -Tabler, Deputy 
Attorneys General, for Matthew P. Denn, Attorney 
General of Delaware, Wilmington, D elaware; 

Benjamin Gutman, Solicitor General, Adam 
Holbrook, Assistant Attorney General, for Ellen F. 
Rosenblum, Attorney General of Oregon, Salem, 
Oregon; Xavier Becerra, Attorney General of 
California, Sacramento, California; George Jepsen, 
Attorney General of Connecticut, Hartford, 
Connecticut; Russell A. Suzuki, Attorney General 
of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii; Lisa Madigan, 
Attorney General of Illinois, Chicago, Illinois; 
Thomas J. Miller, Attorney General of Iowa, Des 
Moines, Iowa; Janet T. Mills, Attorney General of 
Maine, Augusta, Maine; Brian E. Frosh, Attorney 
General of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland; Lori 
Swanson, Attorney General of Minnesota, St. Paul, 
Minnesota; Jim Hood, Attorney General of 
Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi; Gurbir S. 
Grewal, Attorney General of New Jersey, Trenton, 
New Jersey; Hector Balderas, Attorney General of 
New Mexico, Santa Fe, New Mexico; Joshua H. 
Stein, Attorney General of North Carolina, 
Raleigh, North Carolina; Josh Shapiro, Attorney 
General of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, 
Pennsylvania; Peter F. Kilmartin, Attorney 
General of Rhode Island, Providence, Rhode 
Island; Thomas J. Donovan, Jr., Attorney General 
of Vermont, Montpelier, Vermont; Mark R. 
Herring, Attorney General of Virginia, Richmond, 
Virginia; Robert W. Ferguson, Attorney General of 
Washington, Olympia, Was hington; Karl A. 
Racine, Attorney General for the District of 
Columbia, Washington, District of Columbia, for 
Amici Curiae States of California, Connecticut, 
Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, 
Maryland, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Jersey, 
New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, 
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, 

Washington, and the District of Columbia in 
support of Defendants-Appellees.

RICHARD J. SULLIVAN, Circuit Judge: 
Plaintiff-Appellant Exxon Mobil Corporation (“Exxon”) appeals from a 
judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York 
(Caproni, J.), dismissing its complaint against Defendants -Appellees Maura 
Healey, in her official capacity as Attorney General of Massachusetts, and Letitia 
James, in her official capacity as Attorney General of New York, and denying leave 
to amend the complaint as futile. The case, which developed a complex 
procedural background before reaching the Southern District of New York, first 
originated in 2016 when Exxon sued the attorneys general of New York and 
Massachusetts (the “states”) under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1983 and 1985 – and their state -
law analogs – principally seeking an order barring those states from investigating 
whether Exxon misled investors and the public regarding the company’s 
knowledge about climate change. Among other things, Exxon allege d that the 
states’ investigations into Exxon’s purportedly deceptive speech concerning 
climate change were motivated by viewpoint discrimination and violated Exxon’s 
constitutional rights. 

In 2018, the district court dismissed Exxon’s claims against the 
Massachusetts Attorney General, finding that the lawsuit was precluded by res 
judicata because Exxon had litigated or could have litigated the present claims in 
an earlier state proceeding . It dismissed Exxon’s claims against the New York 
Attorney General for failure to state a claim and denied as futile Exxon’s mo tion 
for leave to file a second amended complaint. 
On appeal, Exxon challenges both grounds for dismissal and the denial of 
leave to amend, contending that it stated plausible constitutional claims which 
were not barred by res judicata as to the Massachusetts Attorney General. Exxon 
also more specifically argues that the district court failed to address Exxon’s 
viewpoint discrimination claim, improperly analyzed Exxon’s allegations and 
demanded evidence, and drew inferences in favor of the Attorneys General. 
During the pendency of the appeal, the New York Attorney General c oncluded 
the New York investigation after commencing an enforcement action, which 
eventually resulted in a judgment in Exxon’s favor. We therefore grant the New 
York Attorney General’s motion to dismiss the appeal on the ground that Exxon’s 
claims against her are moot. We also affirm the district court’s determination that 

Exxon’s claims against the Massachusetts Attorney General are precluded by the 
doctrine of res judicata. 
I. BACKGROUND 
A. State Court Investigations 
In 2015 and 2016, respectively, the Attorneys General of New York and 
Massachusetts commenced investigations into “whether ExxonMobil committed 
consumer or securities fraud by misrepresenting its knowledge of climate 
change.” J. App’x at 396. I n November 2015, the New York Attorney General 
(then-Attorney General Eric Schneiderman) served Exxon with a subpoena 
seeking documents and communications related to its research on climate change. 
In April 2016, the Massachusetts Attorney General served a Civil Investigative 
Demand (the “CID”) to investigate potential violations of Section 2 of 
Massachusetts General Laws chapter 93A, which prohibits “unfair or deceptive 
acts or practices” in “trade or commerce.” J. App’x at 1026. The CID focused on 
the marketing and sale of fossil fuel products to Massachusetts consumers, and on 
the marketing and sale of Exxon securities to investors. 
The New York Attorney General sought additional documents related to the 
ongoing investigation in the fall of 2016 . Although Exxon initially produced 

documents in response to both New York subpoenas, the N ew York Attorney 
General moved to compel further compliance with the 2015 subpoena in 
November 2016. Shortly thereafter, Justice Barry R. Ostrager, who oversaw that 
proceeding, set a deadline for Exxon to complete production. Exxon subsequently 
certified compliance with the November 2015 subpoena. 
B. Exxon’s Federal Action in the Northern District of Texas 
On June 15, 2016, Exxon filed a complaint against Massachusetts Attorney 
General Healey in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
Texas (Kinkeade, J .) seeking declaratory and injunctive relief under Texas and 
federal law. Among other things, Exxon sought to enjoin the CID , alleging that 
the Massachusetts investigation was pretextual and violated the dormant 
Commerce Clause and Exxon’s rights under the First Amendment, its right to be 
free of unreasonable searches under the Fourth Amendment, and its due process 
rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. Exxon moved for a preliminary 
injunction, while Attorney General Healey cross-moved to dismiss. The district 
court sua sponte ordered certain jurisdictional discovery relevant to Attorney 
General Healey’s motion to dismiss. 
Exxon filed an amended complaint on November 10, 2016, adding then-

Attorney General Schneiderman as a defendant and including allegations 
pertaining to the New York investigation . In addition to asserting various 
constitutional claims, Exxon also alleged that the two Attorneys General conspired 
to silence and intimidate one side of the climate policy debate through pretextual 
investigations. In support of its claims that the Attorneys General were biased and 
conducted investigations with improper political motives , Exxon pointed to , 
among other things, public comments made by both Attorneys General at an “AGs 
United for Clean Power” conference . Exxon also alleged that the two offices 
received private presentations from climate activists and lawyers, who enlisted the 
public officials to utilize state investigative authority to bring fossil fuel 
companies’ internal corporate documents to light . The Attorneys General 
eventually moved to dismiss Exxon’s amended complaint. 
In December 2016, the N orthern District of Texas court stayed its prior 
jurisdictional discovery order, and , following the Fifth Circuit’s denial of the 
Massachusetts Attorney General’s petition for a writ of mandamus , ordered 
briefing on its ability to exercise personal jurisdiction over the Attorneys General. 
C. Exxon’s Petition in Massachusetts State Court 
On June 16, 2016, one day after Exxon filed its original complaint against the 

Massachusetts Attorney General in Texas, Exxon separately petitioned a 
Massachusetts Superior Court to set aside the CID and disqualify Attorney 
General Healey. In that petition, Exxon contended – among other things – that the 
CID violate d state constitutional protections for free speech and freedom from 
unreasonable searches, and that the CID was arbitrary and capricious. 
Acknowledging that its petition raised issues that potentially overlap ped 
with those in its federal suit, Exxon requested that the Massachusetts Superior 
Court grant a stay pending the outcome of the federal litigation in Texas. The 
Massachusetts Attorney General cross-moved to compel Exxon to comply with the 
CID. 
On January 11, 2017, the Massachusetts Superior Court denied Exxon’s 
petition to set aside the CID and granted the Massachusetts Attorney General’s 
motion to compel. The Superior Court rejected Exxon’s assertion that the Attorney 
General’s actions constituted political bias or viewpoint discrimination rising to 
the level of arbitrary and capricious conduct, determining instead that the 
Attorney General had “assayed sufficient grounds – her concerns about Exxon’s 
possible misrepresentations to Massac husetts consumers – upon which to issue 
the CID” and thus a cted in good faith. J. App’x at 1 017; see id. at 1016. But the 

court declined to consider Exxon’s free speech claim at that time , reasoning that 
the Attorney General was still investigating whether Exxon’s statements or 
omissions in communications to consumers were misleading or deceptive, and 
that misleading or deceptive speech would not be “entitled to any free speech 
protection.” Id. at 1017 n.2. The court also denied Exxon’s motion to disqualify 
Attorney General Healey, finding that her comments about the investigation at the 
“AGs United for Clean Power” conference did not reveal bias. 
On February 8, 201 7, Exxon appealed the Superior Court’s order. In April 
2018, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts (“SJC”) affirmed the Superior 
Court’s decision. On January 7, 2019, the U nited States Supreme Court denied 
Exxon’s petition for a writ of certiorari to review the SJC’s decision. 
D. Transfer of the Federal Action to the Southern District of New York 
On March 29, 2017, while the Massachusetts action was pending, Judge 
Kinkeade sua sponte transferred the federal case from the Northern District of 
Texas to “the proper venue” – the Southern District of New York – where it was 
assigned to Judge Caproni . J. App’x at 988– 1001. After receiving additional 
briefing on the Attorneys General’s motions to dismiss and Exxon’s cross-motion 
to amend its c omplaint, the district court (Caproni, J.) issued an order on March 

29, 2018, dismissing the amended complaint with prejudice and denying Exxon’s 
request for leave to amend as futile. Although the court found that Exxon’s claim 
was ripe and that it had personal jurisdiction over the Massachusetts Attorney 
General, it held that Exxon’s claims against the Massachusetts Attorney General 
were barred by res judicata – also known as claim preclusion – since Exxon could 
have raised those claims in the Massachusetts proceeding . As to Exxon’s 
remaining causes of action against the New York Attorney General, the court 
dismissed those claims pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), 
concluding that Exxon had failed to plead an improper motive – a prerequisite for 
each of Exxon’s constitutional claims. 
E. Appeal of District Court’s Dismissal 
Exxon timely appealed, challenging both the dismissal of its claims and the 
denial of its motion to amend. Exxon asserts that it stated plausible constitutional 
claims that were not barred by res judicata, and that the district court failed to 
address Exxon’s viewpoint discrimination claim, incorrectly analyzed Exxon’s 
allegations, wrongly demanded evidence at the pleading stage , and improperly 
drew inferences in favor of the Attorneys General. 
After the merits briefing on appeal concluded, the New York Attorney 

General closed the New York investigation and brought an enforcement action 
against Exxon in state court alleging “that Exxon engaged in a scheme to deceive 
investors and the investment community about the risks posed to its business by 
climate change regulation,” in violation of Ne w York law. See Dkt. 190 (“MTD”) 
at 5 (internal quotation marks omitted). 
The New York Attorney General then moved in this Court to dismiss the 
appeal as moot, arguing that because the Attorney General had ended the 
investigation on which Exxon’s claims are based, there was no longer a live 
controversy capable of redress. Exxon opposed the motion on several grou nds, 
including its contention that a live controversy still existed because the relief 
sought in the federal action would prevent the New York Attorney General from 
using wrongfully obtained documents in the state enforcement action. Exxon also 
contended that the New York Attorney General’s termination of the investigation 
fell under mootness exceptions for voluntary cessation of challenged conduct and 
conduct capable of repetition but evading review. The New York Attorney 
General’s motion was referred to this panel to be considered with Exxon’s appeal 
from the district court’s ruling. 
After the parties completed briefing on the motion to dismiss in this Court, 

the state enforcement action proceeded to trial in the Commercial Division of the 
New York State Supreme Court. On December 10, 2019, after a twelve-day trial, 
Justice Ostrager issued a thirty -one-page decision in Exxon’s favor. See People v. 
Exxon Mobil Corp., 119 N.Y.S.3d 829, 2019 WL 6795771 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. Dec. 10, 2019). 
Among other things, Justice Ostrager concluded that, after an extensive three-and-
a-half-year investigation and pre -trial discovery period during which Exxon 
produced “millions of pages of documents and dozens of witnesses for interviews 
and depositions,” id. at *1, the New York Attorney General “ failed to prove [at 
trial], by a preponderance of the evidence, that ExxonMobil made any material 
misstatements or omissions about its practices and procedures that misled any 
reasonable investor,” id. at *30. Justice Ostrager further emphasized that the New 
York Attorney General had not produced “ testimony . . . from any investor who 
claimed to have been misled by any [ of Exxon’s] disclosure[s], even though the 
Office . . . had previously represented it would call such individuals as trial 
witnesses.” Id. On January 24, 2020, the New York Attorney General represented 
she would not appeal Justice Ostrager’s ruling, and the time in which to do so has 
since expired. 
On October 24, 2019 – while this appeal was pending and the New York trial 

was in its third day of testimony – the Massachusetts Attorney General filed a civil 
complaint against Exxon under the Consumer Protection Act. That action, which 
was removed to federal court and has since been remanded to state court, is still 
ongoing. See Commonwealth v. Exxon Mobil Corp., No. 1984CV03333BLS1, 2021 WL 
3493456, at *1 (Mass. Super. Ct. June 22, 2021) (denying Exxon’s motion to dismiss). 
II. DISCUSSION 
On appeal, Exxon challenges the district court’s dismissal on all grounds . 
Although both Attorneys General contend that the district court properly 
dismissed Exxon’s complaint for failure to state a claim, t he New York Attorney 
General raises a threshold question of mootness, arguing that there is no live 
controversy because the New York investigation and related trial have concluded. 
For her part, the Massachusetts Attorney General maintains that Exxon’s claims 
are precluded under the doctrine of res judicata, as those claims could have been 
raised in the Massachusetts Superior Court action . We are persuaded that the 
appeal as to the New York Attorney General is moot and that res judicata bars 
Exxon’s claims against the Massachusetts Attorney General , and therefore affirm 
in part and dismiss in part on those grounds. 

A. The Appeal Is Moot as to the New York Attorney General. 
Because our jurisdiction is constitutionally limited to “actual, ongoing cases 
or controversies,” a party must at all stages have “an actual injury . . . likely to be 
redressed by a favorable judicial decision.” Lewis v. Cont’l Bank Corp., 494 U.S. 472, 
477 (1990); see also Mangouras v. Squire Patton Boggs, 980 F.3d 88, 96 (2d Cir. 2020). 
The parties must retain a continued “ personal stake in the outcome ,” even on 
appeal, leaving us to resolve only “real and substantial controversies admitting of 
specific relief” rather than issue decisions “advising what the law would be upon 
a hypothetical state of facts.” Lewis, 494 U.S. at 477– 78 (brackets and internal 
quotation marks omitted). “A moot action therefore must be dismissed, even if 
the case was live at the outset but later events rendered it moot on appeal.” N.Y.C. 
Emps.’ Ret. Sys. v. Dole Food Co., 969 F.2d 1430, 1433 (2d Cir. 1992); see also Haley v. 
Pataki, 60 F.3d 137, 141 (2d Cir. 1995) (“[I]t is axiomatic that there must be a 
continuing controversy capable of redress by this Court.”). 
A live controversy remains as long as “a court can fashion some form of 
meaningful relief” to award the complaining party, and even “[t]he availability of 
[a] possible remedy is sufficient to prevent [a] case from being moot.” Church of 
Scientology v. United States, 506 U.S. 9, 12–13 (1992) (second emphasis added). This 

inquiry is more complicated in cases involving states or state agents as 
defendants – like this one – since the Eleventh Amendment bars the award of 
money damages against state officials in their official capacities. See Pennhurst 
State Sch. & Hosp. v. Halderman, 465 U.S. 89, 100–03 (1984). The Supreme Court has 
made clear that, pursuant to the doctrine first articulated in Ex parte Young, 209 
U.S. 123 (1908), a plaintiff may bring claims against a state official act ing in her 
official capacity only if he allege s an “ongoing violation of federal law and seek s 
[injunctive] relief properly characterized as prospective.” Verizon Md. Inc. v. Pub. 
Serv. Comm'n of Md., 535 U.S. 635, 645 (2002) (internal quotation marks omitted); 
see Ford v. Reynolds, 316 F.3d 351, 355 (2d Cir. 2003). Accordingly , for this case to 
remain live, there must be a possible effectual remedy for the violations it alleges, 
and the remedy must be prospective relief that would address an ongoing 
violation of federal law. 
With respect to its claims against the New York Attorney General, Exxon 
commenced the federal action principally to enjoin an investigation that has now 
concluded. Additionally, the enforcement action that the New York Attorney 
General brought based on th at investigation has been resolved in Exxon’s favor. 
In light of these developments, Exxon cannot now obtain the prospective relief it 

requested in its operative complaint (to enjoin enforcement of the New York 
Attorney General’s November 2015 subpoena) or in its proposed amended 
complaint (to enjoin the New York Attorney General’s investigation generally). 
Put simply, the Court cannot enjoin what no longer exists. See Browning Debenture 
Holders' Comm. v. DASA Corp., 524 F.2d 811, 814 (2d Cir. 1975) (“[I]t is . . . 
impossible to enjoin the meeting already held.”); see als o Ne. Fla. Chapter of 
Associated Gen. Contractors of Am. v. City of Jacksonville, 508 U.S. 656, 670 (1993) 
(O’Connor, J., dissenting) (explaining that “challenges to legislation that . . . has 
been repealed, where the plaintiff has sought only prospective relief ,” are moot 
because “[i]f the challenged statute no longer exists . . . an order enjoining its 
enforcement would be meaningless”). The question before us, then, is whether 
under these circumstances Exxon retains “some interest” in the case it brought, “so 
that a decision in its favor will inure to its benefit.” New England Health Care Emps. 
Union, Dist. 1199, SEIU AFL–CIO v. Mount Sinai Hosp., 65 F.3d 1024, 1029 (2d Cir. 
1995). 
Although Exxon concedes that the New York investigation and subsequent 
enforcement action have concluded, it nevertheless insists that there are additional 
injunctive remedies that would constitute prospective relief for the alleged 

violations. The se include (1) the return or destruction of docum ents that Exxon 
produced during the course of the investigation, (2) the issuance of an affirmative 
injunction directing the New York Attorney General to curtail the policies that led 
to the issuance of the offensive subpoenas in the first place, and (3) declaratory 
relief stating “that the [New York Attorney General’s] investigation of ExxonMobil 
violated its constitutional rights.” Dkt. 203 (“Exxon MTD Opp’n”) at 17–19. 
To be sure, the conclusion of an investigation will not ordinarily moot a 
challenge to a subpoena if a court can order “meaningful relief” by, for example, 
“ordering the . . . return [of] records” provided during the investigation. Church 
of Scientology , 506 U.S. at 12–13 (contemplating the return of documents as 
meaningful relief in a case involving the possession of specific materials sought by 
subpoena). We have also recognized that subpoena compliance does not 
necessarily moot an appeal of an order enforcing a subpoena , since respondents 
maintain a privacy interest in the documents they have produced and would be 
entitled to the ir return if successful. S ee Washington Nat’l Ins. Co. v. OBEX Grp. 
LLC, 958 F.3d 126, 133 (2d Cir. 2020); accord Life Receivables Tr. v. Syndicate 102 at 
Lloyd’s of London, 549 F.3d 210, 214 n.4 (2d Cir. 2008) (acknowledging that a privacy 
interest in discovered documents remains even after compliance with a subpoena); 

United States v. Constr. Prod s. Rsch., Inc., 73 F.3d 464, 469 (2d Cir. 1996) ( noting in 
dicta that respondents to a subpoena had a privacy interest in the return of 
surrendered documents and that the case was not moot because respondents still 
contested the government actor’s authority to have issued the subpoena). But this 
precedent is of no moment here, since the record reflects that Exxon stipulated to 
a process by which the New York Attorney General would destroy or return 
confidential documents that Exxon produced in the investigation and enforcement 
action. See MTD, Mot. App’x at 150–61 (“Stipulation”). 
Under the terms of th e Stipulation, which was executed by the parties and 
ordered by the judge in the New York enforcement proceeding, Exxon agreed to a 
process by which it could designate materials as confidential, in which case the 
documents – including “all reproductions ther eof” – would be returned or 
destroyed at the conclusion of the action. See id. at 159. While the Stipulation also 
permitted opposing counsel to retain certain materials such as work product , 
Exxon agreed to that carve-out and has not suggested that it did not voluntarily 
enter the Stipulation. Similarly, although the Stipulation is “without prejudice to 
the rights of” either party “to move for relief from any of its provisions, or to seek 
or agree to different or additional protection for any particula r material or 

information,” id. at 160, th e mere possibility that a party may seek some 
undisclosed form of additional relief – the likelihood of which has not been 
shown – does not change the fact that Exxon has already obtained by stipulation a 
binding commitment from the New York Attorney General to provide the very 
relief that Exxon now claims to seek . As we have previously recognized, 
assurances made in stipulations that agree to provide the relief sought leaves this 
Court without a role with respect to such relief, particularly where there is “no 
indication that [the] understanding [between the parties] has . . . been breached.” 
Sanders v. Wyman, 464 F.2d 488, 490–91 (2d Cir. 1972) (dismissing appeal as moot 
where the defendants signed a stipulation and order prohibiting them from 
disclosing confidential information and social service records of welfare recipients 
to a housing authority without the recipients’ permission, and plaintiffs did not 
show future risk of the same harm or that defendants had threatened 
noncompliance with the stipulation and order ); cf. Hewitt v. Helms , 482 U.S. 755, 
761 (1987) (“The real value of the judicial pronouncement — what makes it a 
proper judicial resolution of a ‘case or controversy’ rather than an advisory 
opinion — is in the settling of some dispute which affects the behavior of the defendant 
towards the plaintiff.” (emphasis in original)). Th e Stipulation therefore provides 

the very relief that Exxon purports to seek from the Court, eliminating any 
possibility that this Court could fashion prospective relief to address an ongoing 
violation of federal law.1 
As to Exxon’s belated proposals of alternative forms of injunctive relief, we 
easily reject them as speculative and not sufficiently tied to an ongoing injury. For 
example, Exxon does not even attempt to explain how the imposition of a monitor 
“to ensure that continued viewpoint bia s does not influence [ the New York 
Attorney General’s] decision to use official power against ExxonMobil” would 
cure an ongoing violation. Exxon MTD Opp ’n at 19. Exxon has not alleged any 
facts to suggest continuing harms from the now-ceased investigation and resolved 
enforcement action, and the alternative relief that it seeks could only address 
entirely hypothetical future harms ; therefore, we conclude that Exxon’s new 
arguments for alternative equitable remedies cannot overcome the obvious 
mootness of Exxon’s claims. 

1 During oral argument, Exxon asserted that the New York Attorney General has not yet returned 
or destroyed Exxon’s documents as required under the stipulation. Oral Argument at 1:09– 4:33 
(Feb. 18, 2020). In response, the New York Attorney General represented to the Court that she 
had not done so because the Attorney General was subject to a litigation hold pursuant to the 
Stipulation. Id. at 16:40–17:11; Stipulation at 160. Given that the parties voluntarily entered into 
a stipulation that includes a process overseen by Justice Ostrager to adjudicate the return or 
destruction of documents, the fact that this process was apparently not complete at the time of 
argument will not alter our conclusion. 

Nor does Exxon’s request for a declaratory judgment constitute a claim for 
prospective relief for an ongoing constitutional violation. In Green v. Mansour, the 
Supreme Court made clear that a request for a declaratory judgment as to a past 
violation cannot itself establish a case or controversy to avoid mootness. 474 U.S. 
64, 73–74 (1985); see also McGinty v. New York, 251 F.3d 84, 101 (2d Cir. 2001). Again, 
because the Attorney General’s investigation is over, any declaratory judgment 
opining on the legality of th at investigation would be “entirely retrospective 
because the state [is] no longer [allegedly] violating federal law.” Ward v. Thomas, 
207 F.3d 114, 119 (2d Cir. 2000); see id. at 120 (“Any declaration could say no more 
than that Connecticut had violated federal law in the past . . . [and] would have 
much the same effect as a full- fledged award of damages or restitution by the 
federal court, the latter kinds of relief being of course prohibited by the Eleventh 
Amendment.” (internal quotation marks omitted)).2 
Exxon nevertheless contends that its complaint is not moot because the New 
York Attorney General’s termination of the New York investigation falls within 
one of the exceptions to the mootness doctrine – as either a voluntary cessation of 

2 Exxon’s claimed need for a declaratory injunction is particularly curious given Justice Ostrager’s 
written opinion in the enforc ement action. As discussed above, Justice Ostrager issued a final 
order in favor of Exxon, definitively rejecting the New York Attorney General’s enforcement 
action against Exxon. See Exxon Mobil Corp., 119 N.Y.S.3d 829, 2019 WL 6795771, at *30. 

allegedly unlawful activity that may be freely resumed or as conduct that is 
“capable of repetition while evading judicial review.” Exxon MTD Opp’n at 6. We 
disagree. 
Generally, the “voluntary cessation of allegedly illegal conduct” is not 
enough to render a case moot. United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345 U.S. 629, 632 
(1953). Otherwise, a defendant might “ strategically alter its conduct in order to 
prevent or undo a ruling adverse to its interest.” E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co. v. 
Invista B.V., 473 F.3d 44, 47 (2d Cir. 2006). Nevertheless, a case involving such 
voluntary cessation may be moot where “there is no reasonable expectation” of 
the alleged violation’s recurrence, and interim events have “completely and 
irrevocably eradicated the effects of the alleged violation.” County of Los Angeles 
v. Davis, 440 U.S. 625, 631 (1979) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
Exxon initially argued that the voluntary cessation exception applied 
because the New York Attorney General made the decision to terminate the 
investigation while continuing to res erve a right to seek discovery, and to utilize 
the previously produced documents, in the civil enforcement action. In the 
interim, of course, the enforcement action itself has concluded in Exxon’s favor, 
and both parties have stipulated to the return or destruction of all documents 

produced by Exxon during the investigation. Under these circumstances, interim 
events have “completely and irrevocably eradicated the effects of the [New York 
Attorney General’s] alleged violation,” id., and it cannot be seriously argued that 
there is a reasonable expectation of the alleged violation’s recurrence. 
Nor can Exxon succeed in arguing that the conduct is “capable of repetition, 
yet evading review.” Irish Lesbian & Gay Org. v. Giuliani, 143 F.3d 638, 647 (2d Cir. 
1998). For this exception to apply, (1) the plaintiff must have a “reasonable 
expectation” that it will be subject to the same challenged action again, and (2) the 
challenged conduct must be of “too short [a duration] to be fully litigated” before 
its cessation. Id. at 647–48. “This facet of the mootness doctrine . . . is applicable 
only in exceptional situations.” Dennin v. Conn. Interscholastic Athletic Conf., Inc., 
94 F.3d 96, 101 (2d Cir. 1996) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
Exxon has failed to establish a reasonable expectation that the conduct at 
issue in the present suit will recur, principally because the New York Attorney 
General’s investigation and lawsuit have concluded; indeed, the state action was 
resolved in Exxon’s favor, and the New York Attorney General did not appeal . 
There is simply no rational basis to assume that the New York Attorney General 
is poised to pursue a subsequent fraud investigation involving the same alleged 

misconduct. Dennin, 94 F.3d at 100–01 (observing that “mere speculation that the 
parties will be involved in a dispute over the same issue does not rise to the level 
of a ‘reasonable expectation’ or ‘demonstrated probability’ of recurrence” (internal 
quotation marks omitted)); Haley, 60 F.3d at 141 (stating that “the mere ‘theoretical 
possibility’ that this scenario will arise again is not sufficient for the capable -of-
repetition exception to apply”); Knaust v. City of Kingston, 157 F.3d 86, 88 (2d Cir. 
1998) (explaining that it will not “suffice to hypothesize the possibility that at some 
future time, under circumstances that could only be guessed at now, the parties 
could theoretically become embroiled in a like controversy once again”). 
Exxon’s insistence that the New York Attorney General “continues to 
defend the legality” of the office’s conduct does not alter our analysis. Exxon MTD 
Opp’n at 9 (internal quotation marks omitted). Among other things, Exxon 
contends that a press release issued by the New York Attorney General following 
the New York court ruling contains politically motivated statements and 
demonstrates that the Attorney General “continues to defend the legality and 
propriety of its unconstitutional efforts to restrict speech, and . . . promises more 
of the same.” Dkt. 286 at 2. But the broad statement in the pres s release – 
proclaiming that the Attorney General “will continue to fight to ensure companies 

are held responsible for actions that undermine and jeopardize the financial health 
and safety of Americans across our country[] and . . . to end climate change,” id. at 
61 – is too generic to create a reasonable expectation that another allegedly 
pretextual investigation will recur. That is particularly true in light of the New 
York Attorney General’s decision not to appeal the state court decision, leaving as 
final and conclusive the state court’s ruling that the evidence developed as a result 
of the New York Attorney General’s investigation was insufficient to subject 
Exxon to state fraud liability. See Haley , 60 F.3d at 141 (rejecting as “entirely 
speculative” the prospect that “a battl e over the budget will occur next year” yet 
evade review due to its transitory nature where that prosp ect was based on an 
assumption that “the same principals will be involved in [the] next year’s budget 
process” (internal quotation marks omitted)). 
Nor can it be said that the New York Attorney General’s conduct was too 
short-lived to be fully litigated before it ceased . To the contrary, Exxon’s 
complaints about that conduct were fully litigated in the state court, which granted 
a resounding victory for Exxon in a final judgment that the New York Attorney 

General chose not to appeal, making further litigation of the federal issues wholly 
unnecessary. 
Finally, Exxon argues that even if this appeal is moot, the Court should 
remand with instructions to the district court to vacate its dismissal of Exxon’s 
complaint to avoid “giving preclusive effect to a judgment never reviewed by an 
appellate court .” Exxon MTD Opp’n at 22 (internal quotation marks omitted) 
(quoting Dole Food , 969 F.2d at 1435). As the Supreme Court stated in United 
States v. Munsingwear, Inc., we ordinarily vacate the ruling that was the subject of 
the appeal if mootness occurs through the unilateral action of the party prevailing 
below – in this case, the New York Attorney General – or through circumstances 
unattributable to either party. 340 U.S. 36, 39–41 (1950); but see U.S. Bancorp Mortg. 
Co. v. Bonner Mall P’ship , 513 U.S. 18, 23, 25, 29 (1994) (noting that Munsingwear’s 
description of the “‘established practice’ for vacatur was dictum” and holding that 
it is generally inapplicable in the context of settlement ). We need not vacate, 
however, where “the party seeking relief from the judgment below caused the 
mootness by voluntary action.” Doe v. Gonzales , 449 F.3d 415, 420 (2d Cir. 2006) 
(internal quotation marks omitted ); see U.S. Bancorp Mortg. Co., 513 U.S. at 26, 29 
(holding that, barring exceptional circumstances, “mootness by reason of 

settlement does not justify vacatur of a judgment under review” because “[i]t is 
[the] petitioner’s burden, as the party seeking relief from the status quo of the 
appellate judgment, t o demonstrate not merely equivalent responsibility for the 
mootness, but equitable entitlement to the extraordinary remedy of vacatur”). 
Here, Exxon’s appeal was rendered moot by Exxon’s insistence in 
proceeding to trial in the New York enforcement actio n, the Attorney General’s 
decision not to appeal Justice Ostrager’s ruling in favor of Exxon, and the parties’ 
mutual agreement and stipulation to the process for the return or destruction of 
documents produced by Exxon prior to trial . In situations where “mootness is 
neither happenstance, nor attributable to one party but not the other,” courts are 
directed to exercise discretion in determining whether to vacate. Mfrs. Hanover Tr. 
Co. v. Yanakas, 11 F.3d 381, 383– 84 (2d Cir. 1993) (internal citations omitted). In 
doing so, we “look at the equities of the individual case ,” Hassoun v. Searls, 976 
F.3d 121, 130 (2d Cir. 2020) ( internal quotation marks omitted) , and require that 
the party seeking vacatur meet its burden of demonstrating entitlement to vacatur, 
see U.S. Bancorp Mortg. Co., 513 U.S. at 26. 
The equities do not favor vacatur in this case. While the New York Attorney 
General ultimately had final control over whether to cease the New York 

investigation, both parties knowingly pursued the trial of the enforcement action 
with vigor. Indeed, while this appeal was pending, “Exxon stopped agreein g to 
toll the limitations period for [the New York Attorney General] to bring an 
enforcement action,” compelling her to commence the action before Justice 
Ostrager in the Commercial Division. Dkt. 207 (“MTD Reply”) at 14. Throughout 
that action, Exxon pressed “to try the case in 2019” and was “delighted that [the 
court was] going to move the case.” MTD , Mot. App’x at 107. Indeed, Exxon 
“promise[d]” the state court that the parties would “come back with an expedited 
trial schedule.” Id. Given these facts, we conclude that the New York Attorney 
General was not solely responsible in mooting the appeal. 
To be clear, Exxon’s actions in nudging this case toward potential mootness 
were by no means improper, and we do not suggest that Exxon engaged in any 
sort of gamesmanship – only that the likely consequences of its litigation strategy, 
including the mootness of this appeal, were obvious. In essence, Exxon pursued a 
two-front campaign in which a victory in either court would achieve its objectives. 
Having framed its federal complaint around the harms allegedly caused by 
the New York Attorney General’s investigation, Exxon should have understood 
that its voluntary actions in state court – which, again, facilitated the end of the 

complained-of investigation and opened to Exxon the now -realized possibility of 
prevailing on the enforcemen t action – risked mooting this appeal. See U.S. 
Bancorp Mortg. Co., 513 U.S. at 29 (declining to grant vacatur where party seeking 
relief from adverse decision participated in actions that mooted dispute on 
appeal); Russman v. Bd. of Educ. of Enlarged City Sch. Dist. of Watervliet, 260 F.3d 114, 
121–23 (2d Cir. 2001) (noting that an appellant’s conduct can “ constitute 
‘forfeiture’ of the benefit of vacatur ” where it “knew or should have known that 
his conduct was substantially likely to moo t the appeal”); see also In re W. Pac. 
Airlines, Inc., 181 F.3d 1191, 1194, 1197 –98 (10th Cir. 1999) ( declining to vacate 
orders at issue in the appeal in part because appellants “contribut[ed] to the 
mootness of th[e] appeal by failing to seek a stay” pending review of bankruptcy 
court order). 
Under these circumstances, and bearing in mind that “[j]udicial precedents 
are presumptively correct[,] . . . valuable to the legal community as a whole,” and 
“should stand unless a court concludes that the public interest would be served by 
a vacatur,” U.S. Bancorp Mortg. Co., 513 U.S. at 26, we are not persuaded that Exxon 
has carried its burden to show that it is equitably entitled to the “extraordinary 

remedy of vacatur,” id.; see also Doe, 449 F.3d at 420–21. We therefore dismiss the 
appeal as to the New York Attorney General. 
B. Exxon’s Claims Against the Massachusetts Attorney General Are 
Precluded. 

With respect to its claims against the Massachusetts Attorney General, 
Exxon argues that “[r]es judicata does not apply . . . because the claims asserted in 
[the federal] action were not raised in or decided by the Massachusetts state court.” 
Exxon Br. at 54. During oral argument, Exxon stresse d that res judicata is 
concerned with “claim” preclusion and not “argument” preclusion, leaving Exxon 
free to raise constitutional arguments in state court to set aside the CID while 
preserving its constitutional claims in federal court to enjoin the CID’s 
enforcement. Again, we disagree. 
Federal courts are required to “give preclusive effect to state -court 
judgments whenever the courts of the [s]tate from which the judgments emerged 
would do so.” Allen v. McCurry, 449 U.S. 90, 96 (1980). In Massachusetts, a prior 
court decision may have claim-preclusive effect when there is “(1) the identity or 
privity of the parties to the present and prior actions, (2) identity of the cause of 
action, and (3) [a] prior final judgment on the merits.” Kobrin v. Bd. of Registration 
in Med. , 444 Mass. 837, 843 (2005) ( citation omitted). Importantly, under 

Massachusetts law, res judicata “prevents relitigation of all matters that . . . could 
have been adjudicated,” not just those that were. Id. (citation omitted). 
Applying these principles to the two actions before us, we agree with the 
district court that all three elements of the res judicata test have been satisfied here. 
1. The Parties in the Massachusetts and Federal Actions Are Identical. 
Neither Exxon nor the Massachusetts Attorney Gene ral disputes that there 
is a complete identity of the parties in the two actions . On June 15, 2016, Exxon 
filed its federal complaint against the Massachusetts Attorney General in the 
Northern District of Texas; a day later, it commenced an action in Massachusetts 
Superior Court to set aside the CID and disqualify Attorney General Healey. 
Accordingly, the first element of the res judicata test is clearly satisfied. 
2. The Proceedings Raise Identical Claims. 
Claims share identity when they “grow[] out of the same transaction, act, or 
agreement, and seek[] redress for the same wrong.” Fassas v. First Bank & Tr. Co. 
of Chelmsford, 353 Mass. 628, 629 (1968) (quoting Mackintosh v. Chambers, 285 Mass. 
594, 596 (1934)). Claims can be identical for preclusion purposes even if raised 
from “different posture[s] or in . . . different procedural form[s].” Wright Mach. 
Corp. v. Seaman-Andwall Corp., 364 Mass. 683, 688 (1974). In fact, claim preclusion 

may apply even when a claim has not been actually litigated in a prior proceeding, 
as long as the claim could have been litigated in that first proceeding. See U.S. Nat’l 
Ass’n v. McDermott, 87 Mass. App. Ct. 1103, 2015 WL 539311, at *1–2 (Jan. 30, 2015). 
Parties cannot skirt res judicata merely “by seeking an alternative remedy,” Wright 
Mach. Corp., 364 Mass. at 688, as “[t]he statement of a different form of liability is 
not a different cause of action,” Fassas, 353 Mass. at 629 (internal quotation marks 
omitted). That is because “[t]he effect of a former judgment . . . depends not upon 
the form of the pleadings but upon the essence of the violation of legal right on 
which pleadings are founded.” Mackintosh, 285 Mass. at 597. 
Although raised in distinct procedural forms, Exxon’s state court petition 
and federal complaint both concern the same essential violations of legal rights. 
Both identify the same relevant injury : the CID’s alleged violation of various 
federal constitutional provisions and their state analogues. For example, in its 
state court petition to set aside the CID, Exxon alleged that “the CID constitutes 
impermissible viewpoint discrimination by targeting ExxonMobil’s climate 
change speech.” J. App’x at 1044. Similarly, in its first amended complaint in the 

federal case, Exxon allege d that “the CID [is an] impermissible viewpoint -based 
restriction[] on speech.” Id. at 434.3 
Moreover, the facts “relied upon to prove liability are essentially the same 
as to both cases.” Ratner v. Rockwood Sprinkler Co., 340 Mass. 773, 776 (1960). As 
the district court recognized, both sets of claims find support in overlapping facts, 
including, among o ther things, allegations that (1) the New York and 
Massachusetts Attorneys General joined the “AGs United for Clean Power” 
conference, (2) climate activists gave private presentations to the Attorneys 
General, (3) the Attorneys General publicly spoke with bias against Exxon, and (4) 
the Attorneys General initiated overreaching and politically motivated 
investigations in bad faith. See Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Schneiderman, 316 F. Supp. 3d 

3 See also J. App’x at 1044 (alleging in the state petition that “in violation of ExxonMobil’s rights 
under Article XIV of the Massachusetts Constitution, the CID launches an unreasonable fishing 
expedition”); id. at 434–35 (alleging in the amended federal complaint that “[t]he subpoena and 
CID are each unreasonable searches and seizures because each of them constitutes an abusive 
fishing expedition . . . [which] violate[s] the Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness requirement”); 
id. at 1044 (alleging in the state petition that the C ID violates Exxon’s “due process right under 
Article XII of the Massachusetts Constitution to a disinterested prosecutor”); id. at 435 (alleging 
in the amended federal complaint that “[t] he subpoena and CID deprive ExxonMobil of due 
process of law by viola ting the requirement that a prosecutor be disinterested”). Moreover, the 
federal Commerce Clause claim, which does not have a Massachusetts analog, is identical for res 
judicata purposes to the state claims. Both sets of claims concern the purported 
unconstitutionality of the CID and draw from the same purportedly wrongful acts, alleging that 
the CID was intended to regulate Exxon’s speech “while only purporting to investigate” Exxon 
for deceptive practices. Id. at 436. 

679, 701–02 (S.D.N.Y. 2018). [See also JA-1024–28.] Indeed, Exxon itself implied 
that the two actions involved overlapping claims – not merely overlapping 
arguments – in its state court filings. See J. App’x at 1111 (requesting that the state 
court “defer[] considerations of claims that overlap with those presented in the 
federal case”).4 
The fact that the actions arose in different procedural circumstances – via an 
action to stop CID enforcement under Section 6(7) of Massachusetts General Laws 
chapter 93A in the state case versus an affirmative § 1983 claim in federal court – 
does not affect our analysis. See Wright Mach. Corp., 364 Mass. at 688–89. Nor does 
it matter that the two actions sought nominally different remedies. See Tuite & 
Sons, Inc. v. Shawmut Bank, N.A., 43 Mass. App. Ct. 751, 754 (1997) (rejecting 
attempt to avoid res judicata by characterizing “affirmative damages” as distinct 
from a defensive “offset” because “the gravamen of both actions is 
indistinguishable”). So long as the same relief was available in the Massachusetts 
proceeding, the fact that Exxon opted to seek different forms of relief in the two 
actions is irrelevant to the issue of claim preclusion. 

4 Exxon makes much of the SJC’s observation of “only a partial overlap in the subject matter of 
[the] two actions,” Exxon Br. at 21 (quoting Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Att’y Gen. , 479 Mass. 312, 329 
(2018)), but the SJC’s short statement offers little insight about which claims in the state and federal 
actions overlap or the significance of the differences between the claims that do not overlap. 

Exxon nevertheless insists that the “ state proceedings pertained to the 
enforcement of a specific CID, while [the federal] action seeks an injunction of 
Attorney General Healey’s investigation, ” Exxon Br. at 55, and further contends 
that certain declaratory and injunctive relief available for its affirmative § 1983 
claims would not have been available in the “limited” CID proceeding, id. at 58–
60.5 But the specific relief that Exxon now claims was available only in federal 
court – namely, an injunction prohibiting pretextual investigations and ending the 
Massachusetts Attorney General ’s investigation – was equally available in state 
court. For starters, Exxon’s emergency motion to set aside the CID acknowledged 
that its Massachusetts action “ seeks the same relief as [the] earlier -filed [federal] 
action.” J. App’x at 1111–12 (emphasis added). In fact, Exxon repeatedly asserted 
that adjudicating both actions would result in relief that was “duplicative” or 
would render the latter action “moot.” See id. at 1046 (noting in CID petition that 
“[s]taying the adjudication of this Petition would avoid the po ssibility of 
duplicative or inconsistent rulings on ExxonMobil’s constitutional challenges to 

5 Notably, Exxon did not seek an injunction “halting or appropriately limiting the investigations” 
until it proposed filing a s econd amended complaint. See J. App’x at 1983– 84. The company’s 
original complaint and first amended complaint requested only an injunction prohibiting 
enforcement of the CID – the very relief sought in the Massachusetts CID action. See id. at 84–85, 
438. 

the CID”); id. at 1077 (Exxon arguing in support of its motion to set aside the CID 
that, if granted, “the relief sought in [the federal] action would render this Petition 
and motion moot”). 
Although Exxon did argue to the SJC that a resolution of the issues pending 
in the state suit would not “resolve the broader issues that are pending in [f]ederal 
[c]ourt,” J. App’x at 1125, Exxon also conceded that all of its claims against the 
Massachusetts Attorney General in both actions arose from the same operative 
facts, id. at 1133–34. And it bears noting that Exxon did not merely seek to quash 
or modify the CID under Section 6(7) of Massachusetts General Laws chapter 93A; 
it also requested equitable relief relating to the broader investigation – asking the 
state court to exercise its “inherent authority” to disqualify Attorney General 
Healey from the investigation because of her public statements suggesting bias 
against Exxon . See J. App’x at 1042–43; see also id. at 1060 (requesting 
disqualification if the court “determines that it can exercise personal jurisdiction 
over Exxon Mobil”); Eli Lilly & Co. v. Gottstein, 617 F.3d 186, 195 (2d Cir. 2010) 
(stating that a “protective order, like any ongoing injunction, is always subject to 
the inherent power of the district court” and “might be thought of as a form of 
injunction in . . . particular setting[s]” (internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting 

Poliquin v. Garden Way, Inc., 989 F.2d 527, 535 (1st Cir. 1993) ). The record thus 
demonstrates that Exxon understood it could plead in the alternative – without 
being concerned about waiving its personal jurisdiction objections – and request 
relief outside the four corners of a traditional motion to quash. See Booth v. Augis, 
72 Mass. App. Ct. 164, 168–69 (2008) (distinguishing cases like Heacock v. Heacock, 
402 Mass. 21 (1988), “where the court in the first action . . . lacked jurisdiction to 
hear the claims sought to be precluded in the second action (or to award the full 
measure of relief)”); Exxon Mobil Corp., 479 Mass. at 329 n.15 (explaining that the 
Superior Court “is not . . . limited [in its jurisdiction], and may hear any case under 
[chapter] 93A ‘for damages and such equitable relief, including an injunction, as 
the court deems to be necessary and proper’”(citation omitted)). 
We are also unpersuaded by Exxon’s contention that res judicata does not 
apply because the Massachusetts CID proceeding was limited in nature and thus 
failed to provide Exxon with a full and fair opportunity to litigate its federal 
claims. In a case involving New York’s res judicata law – which mirrors 
Massachusetts law on that score – this Court rejected the suggestion that litigants 
are in a “defensive” posture when they bring special proceedings objecting to 
government actions; moreover, we expressly dismissed the notion that being in a 

“defensive” posture would alter the analysis for claim pre clusion. Bartel Dental 
Books Co. v. Schultz, 786 F.2d 486, 489 & n.1 (2d Cir. 1986) (barring litigation of 
§ 1983 claims that were or could have been litigated in state proceeding). Under 
the essentially identical Massachusetts preclusion test, any differences in Exxon’s 
ability to assert objections in the CID proceeding are therefore irrelevant. 
Accordingly, we find that the claims brought in the federal action could 
have been raised in the CID proceeding and are therefore identical for purposes of 
Massachusetts res judicata law. 
3. There Is a Prior Final Judgment on the Merits. 
Finally, as to the third res judicata element, there can be no dispute that the 
Massachusetts Superior Court issued a final order on January 11, 2017 , which 
denied Exxon’s petition to set aside the CID and granted the Massachusetts 
Attorney General’s petition to compel Exxon’s production of documents. [JA-
1009–14.] Exxon appealed that final order to the SJC, which affirmed the Superior 
Court’s decision on April 13, 2018. Exxon then sought certiorari before the United 
States Supreme Court, which denied the petition on January 7, 2019. [Dkt. 213.] 
Notwithstanding this series of final orders, Exxon argues that there was no 
final judgment on the merits because the Superior Court expressly reserved 

decision on Exxon’s constitutional claims. This argument is largely based on a 
footnote in the Superior Court’s opinion in which the court stated that it would 
“not address Exxon’s arguments regarding free speech at this time because 
misleading or deceptive advertising is not protected by the First Amendment.” In 
re Civ. Investigative Demand No. 2016-EPD-36, No. SUCV20161888F, 2017 WL 
627305, at *4 n.2 (Mass. Super. Ct. Jan. 11, 2017). Reading the footnote to mean that 
the court expressly reserved decisi on on the constitutional claims at issue here, 
Exxon argues that “[n]o Massachusetts court has held [that res judicata] applies to 
matters that a court could have adjudicated but elected not to.” Exxon Reply Br. 
at 31. 
But Exxon misconstrues the footnote in question. Considered in its entirety, 
the Superior Court’s opinion clearly reflects that it rejected Exxon’s free speech 
arguments centered on viewpoint discrimination after considering Exxon’s 
contentions that the CID violated various state constitutional guarantees – 
guarantees that Exxon acknowledged were coextensive with the First 
Amendment. See, e.g., J. App’x at 1100 (Exxon arguing in its motion to set aside or 
modify the CID that “Article XVI, like the First Amendment, prohibits government 
action that targets speech because of its content” and citing Massachusetts case 

law stating that Article XVI is coextensive with the First Amendment). Indeed, 
Exxon thoroughly litigated its constitutional arguments before the Superior Court. 
See id. at 1044 (Exxon arguing that Article XVI – the state First Amendment 
analogue – “prohibits the Attorney General from issuing a CID to prescribe what 
shall be orthodox in matters of public concern”); id. at 1071 (Exxon arguing that 
the CID violates Article XVI, because it “impermissibly infringes ExxonMobil’s 
political speech”); id. at 1073 (Exxon arguing that pursuant to Article XIV – the 
state analogue to the Fourth Amendment – “‘unreasonable’ civil investigative 
demands ‘must be quashed or modified’” (citation omitted)); see also id. at 1216–18 
(counsel for the Attorney General addressing at oral argument whether the CID 
violates free speech and unreasonable search and seizure guarantees). 
The footnote on which Exxon stakes its argument in no way limit ed or 
conditioned the state court’s decision to uphold the CID, and the record reflects 
that the court could not have upheld the CID without first concluding that Exxon’s 
impermissible motive claims were meritless. See Att’y Gen. v. Colleton, 387 Mass. 
790, 800 (1982) (explaining that “[civil investigative] demands which invade any 
constitutional rights of the investigated party cannot be condoned”). We therefore 
find that the constitutional claims against the Massachusetts Attorney General 

were fully litigated and decided in a final judgment on the merits. 
* * * 
Because all three elements of the Massachusetts claim preclusion test have 
been satisfied, we agree with the district court that Exxon ’s First Amendment 
claims are barred by the doctrine of res judicata. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we conclude that Exxon’s claims against the 
New York Attorney General are moot and grant the Attorney General’s motion to 
dismiss, see Dkt. 190, as the Attorney General’s investigation has c eased, the 
subsequent enforcement action has been decided in Exxon’s favor, and the state is 
not appealing that decision. We further conclude that Exxon’s claims against the 
Massachusetts Attorney General are barred under the doctrine of res judicata, as 
Exxon could have pursued the relief it now seeks in an earlier Massachusetts state 
court proceeding arising from the same underlying events. Accordingly, we 
DISMISS Exxon’s appeal as to the New York Attorney General and AFFIRM the 
district court’s judgment as to the Massachusetts Attorney General.