FOR PUBLICATION 

UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 

In re: FACEBOOK, INC. 
SECURITIES LITIGATION, 
______________________________ 

AMALGAMATED BANK, Lead 
Plaintiff; PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ 
RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF 
MISSISSIPPI; JAMES KACOURIS, 
individually and on behalf of all others 
similarly situated, 

 Plaintiffs-Appellants, 

 v. 

FACEBOOK, INC.; MARK 
ZUCKERBERG; SHERYL 
SANDBERG; DAVID M. WEHNER, 

 Defendants-Appellees. 

 No. 22-15077 

D.C. No. 5:18-cv-
01725-EJD 

OPINION 

Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the Northern District of California 
Edward J. Davila, District Judge, Presiding 

Argued and Submitted February 8, 2023 
San Francisco, California 
2 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
Filed October 18, 2023 

Before: M. Margaret McKeown, Jay S. Bybee, and Patrick 
J. Bumatay, Circuit Judges. 

Opinion by Judge McKeown; 
Partial Concurrence and Partial Dissent by Judge Bumatay 

SUMMARY* 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

The panel affirmed in part and reversed in part the 
district court’s judgment dismissing under Fed. R. Civ. P. 
12(b)(6) for failure to state a claim a Third Amended 
Complaint in which purchasers of Facebook common stock 
between February 3, 2017, and July 25, 2018, (“the 
shareholders”) allege that Facebook and its executives 
violated Sections 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act’s 
implementing regulations by making materially misleading 
statements and omissions regarding (1) the risk of improper 
access to Facebook users’ data, (2) Facebook’s internal 
investigation into British political consulting firm 
Cambridge Analytica, and (3) the control Facebook users 
have over their data. 
In March 2018, news broke that Cambridge Analytica 
improperly harvested personal data from millions of 

* This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has 
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 3 
unwitting Facebook users and retained copies of the data 
beyond Facebook’s control. In the months that followed, the 
public learned that Facebook had known of Cambridge 
Analytica’s misconduct for over two years and failed to 
inform affected users, and that Facebook surreptitiously 
allowed certain whitelisted third-party apps to access users’ 
Facebook friend data without the users’ friends’ 
consent. Facebook and its exec utives made various 
statements before and after the news announcements 
assuring users that they fully controlled their data on 
Facebook and that no third party would access the data 
without their consent. In the wake of the Cambridge 
Analytica and whitelisting scandals, Facebook’s stock price 
suffered two significant drops totaling more than $200 
billion in market capitalization. 
The panel considered whether, under the heightened 
standard of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, the 
shareholders (1 ) adequately pleaded falsity as to the 
challenged risk statements, (2) adequately pleaded scienter 
as to the Cambridge Analytica investigation statements, and 
(3) adequately pleaded loss causation as to the user control 
statements. 
First, the panel held that the shareholders adequately 
pleaded falsity as to the statements warning that misuse of 
Facebook users’ data could harm Facebook’s business, 
reputation, and competitive position and the district court 
erred by dismissing the complaint as to those 
statements. The panel wrote that, as in In re Alphabet Sec. 
Litig., 1 F.4th 687 (9th Cir. 2021), the shareholders here 
adequately pleaded falsity as to statements in a 2016 Form 
10-K filing with the SEC in which Facebook represented the 
risk of third parties improperly accessing and using 
Facebook users’ data as purely hypothetical. The panel held 
4 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
that the district court correctly dismissed the challenged 
statements regarding the risk of security breaches and the 
risk of the public not perceiving Facebook’s products to be 
“useful, reliable, and trustworthy”; those statem ents do not 
relate to the misuse of Facebook user data by Cambridge 
Analytica, and the shareholders do not allege that those risks 
had materialized at the time of the 2016 10-K such that they 
were false or materially misleading. The panel left to the 
district court on remand whether the shareholders can satisfy 
the other elements of the claims with respect to risk 
statements. 
Second, the panel agreed with the district court that the 
shareholders failed to plead scienter as to Cambridge 
Analytica investigation statements, including ones made by 
a Facebook spokesperson to journalists in March 2017 that 
Facebook’s internal investigation into Cambridge Analytica 
had “not uncovered anything that suggest[ed] wrongdoing” 
related to Cambridge Analytica’s work on th e Brexit and 
Trump campaigns. The panel wrote that the shareholders 
pleaded only that the spokesperson should have known that 
Facebook’s investigation had uncovered misconduct, not 
that the spokesperson actually knew of any misconduct or 
even that there w as a strong inference of an “intent to 
deceive, manipulate, or defraud.” 
Third, as to Facebook’s user control statements: 
The panel affirmed the dismissal as to statements related 
to Facebook’s goals of transparency and control —
statements that were not false when they were made. The 
panel also affirmed the dismissal of a standalone claim 
relating to the June 2018 whitelisting revelation, given that 
the revelation was unaccompanied by a stock price drop. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 5 
The panel held that the shareholders adequately pleaded 
loss causation as to Facebook’s statements —made before 
the March 16, 2018, stock price drop—assuring users that 
they control their content and information on the 
platform. The panel wrote that the shareholders adequately 
pleaded that the March 2018 revelation about Cambridge 
Analytica was the first time Facebook investors were alerted 
that Facebook users did not have complete control over their 
own data, and also adequately pleaded that Facebook did not 
make public statements about the Cambridge Analytica issue 
between 2015 and 2018. 
The panel held that the shareholders adequately pleaded 
that the Cambridge Analytica and whitelisting revelations, 
not any other factor, caused the July 2018 stock drop. The 
panel therefore reversed the district court’s dismissal of 
claims as to Facebook’s statements regarding data control 
that predated the June 3, 2018, whitelisting revelation. 
The panel remanded for further proceedings. 
Judge Bumatay concurred in part and dissented in 
part. He joined the majority in holding that the shareholders 
failed to sufficiently allege a falsity in Facebook’s 
Cambridge Analytica investigation statements. He also 
joined the majority in holding that the shareholders did 
allege a falsity and loss from the user control statements —
but only as those statements relate to Facebook’s practice of 
“whitelisting.” He disagreed with the majority on two 
fundamental points. In his view, the shareholders failed to 
sufficiently allege that Facebook’s risk factor statements in 
its public filings were fraudulent, and didn’t show that 
Facebook’s user control statements were false based on the 
Cambridge Analytica revelations. 

6 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
COUNSEL 
Thomas C. Goldstein (argued), Kevin K. Russell, and Erica 
O. Evans, Goldstein Russell & Woofter LLC, Bethesda, 
Maryland; John C. Browne and Jeremy P. Robinson, 
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP, New York, 
New York; Joseph D. Daley, Danielle S. Myers, and Darren 
J. Robbins, Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, San 
Diego, California; Jason C. Davis, Robbins Geller Rudman 
& Dowd LLP, San Francisco, California; Kathleen Foley, 
Munger Tolles & Olson LLP, Washington, D.C.; Jeremy A. 
Lieberman, Pomerantz LLP, New York, New York; Jennifer 
Pafiti, Pomerantz LLP, Los Angeles, California; for 
Plaintiff-Appellant. 
Joshua S. Lipshutz (argued), Katherine M. Meeks, and 
Trenton J. Van Oss, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, 
Washington, D.C.; Brian M. Lutz and Michael J. Kahn, 
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, San Francisco, California; 
Orin S. Snyder, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, New York, 
New York; Paul J. Collins, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, 
Palo Alto, California; for Defendant-Appellee. 

 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 7 
OPINION 

McKEOWN, Circuit Judge: 
In March 2018, news broke that Cambridge Analytica, a 
British political consulting firm , improperly harvested 
personal data from millions of unwitting Facebook users and 
retained copies of the data beyond Facebook’s control . In 
the months that followed, the public learned that Facebook 
had known of Cambridge Analytica’s misconduct for over 
two years and failed to inform affected users, and that 
Facebook surreptitiously allowed certain whitelisted third -
party apps to access users’ Facebook friend data without the 
users’ friends’ consent. Facebook and its executives made 
various statements before and after the news announcements 
assuring users that they fully controlled their data on 
Facebook and that no third party would access the data 
without their consent. In the wake of the Cambridge 
Analytica and whitelisting scandals, Facebook’s stock price 
suffered two significant drops totaling more than $200 
billion in market capitalization.
Appellants, collectively “the shareholders,” purchased 
shares of Facebook common stock between February 3, 
2017, and July 25, 2018. Soon after the first stock drop in 
March 2018, t hey filed a securities fraud action against 
Facebook and three of its executives: Mark Zuckerberg, 
Facebook’s chief executive officer, Sheryl Sandberg, 
Facebook’s then-chief operating officer, and David Wehner, 

1 In late 2021, the parent company Facebook changed its name to Meta 
Platforms, Inc. Because the events in this case occurred before 2021, we 
refer to Facebook and its former parent company, Facebook, Inc., simply 
as Facebook. 
8 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
Facebook’s chief financial officer. The shar eholders allege 
that Facebook and the executives violated Sections 10(b), 
20(a), and 20A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act’s implementing regulations 
by making materially misleading statements and omissions 
regarding the risk of improper access to Facebook users’ 
data, Facebook ’s internal investigation into Cambridge 
Analytica, and the control Facebook users have over their 
data. Although the shareholders made multiple claims in 
their Third Amended Complaint, only these three categories 
of claims are the subject of this appeal. 
This case calls on us to consider whether , under the 
heightened standard of the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act (“PSLRA”), the shareholders adequately 
pleaded falsity as to the chall enged risk statements, 
adequately pleaded scienter as to the Cambridge Analytica 
investigation statements, and adequately pleaded loss 
causation as to the user control statements. We affirm in part 
and reverse in part.
I. BACKGROUND 
The Third Amended Complaint clocked in at 285 pages. 
Although impressive in terms of magnitude, we nonetheless 
examine the allegations individually and holistically, not by 
weight or volume.3 

2 For ease of reference, we use the categories laid out in the Third 
Amended Complaint. On appeal, the shareholders challenge the district 
court’s dismissal of the statements in ¶¶ 501–05, 507–14, 519, 525, 530, 
533, and 537–38 of the Third Amended Complaint. 
3 These facts are based on the allegations in the Third Amended 
Complaint and may not reflect Facebook’s current practices. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 9 
Facebook, with more than 1.3 billion daily users at the 
inception of this case , is the world’s largest social media 
platform. On Facebook, users share personal content, “like” 
and comment on others’ shared content, play games 
designed by third-party app developers, and more. Facebook 
collects data from its users, including the types of content 
they access, the devices they use to access Facebook, their 
payment information, and their location. The collected data 
is used to individualize the content a user sees on Facebook. 
For example, Facebook may suggest local events to a user 
and tailor the advertisements a user sees. Additionally, a 
third-party app or website integrated onto the Facebook 
platform may access user information when the user engages 
with its services on the platform. For example, a Facebook 
user may play an online game added to the Facebook 
platform by a third- party developer. According to 
Facebook’s terms, the game developer could then access the 
user’s age range, location , language preference, list of 
friends, and other information the user shared with them. 
This is not the first time Facebook has found itself in 
legal hot water over its data sharing practices. In 2012, 
Facebook settled charges with the Federal Trade 
Commission (“FTC”) that it deceived users by representing 
that their personal data was private but allowing the data to 
be shared, including with third- party apps. Facebook 
entered a twenty -year consent decree as part of the 
settlement, agreeing not to misrepresent the extent to which 
Facebook users could control the privacy of their own data. 
In 2019, the FTC imposed a “record -breaking $5 billion 
penalty” on Facebook for violating the consent decree by 
“deceiving users about their ability to control the privacy of 
10 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
their personal information.”4 Facebook users have also sued 
the company alleging that Facebook is dishonest about its 
privacy practices. See, e.g., In re Facebook, Inc. Internet 
Tracking Litig., 956 F.3d 589 (9th Cir. 2020); Campbell v. 
Facebook, Inc., 951 F.3d 1106 (9th Cir. 2020). 
In 2014, Zuckerberg announced publicly that Facebook 
would no longer allow third parties to access and collect data 
from users’ friends, noting that Facebook users were 
surprised to learn that their Facebook friends could share 
their data with a third party without their consent. He 
explained that Facebook users had grown skeptical that their 
data was safe on the platform, and that Facebook was doing 
everything it could “to put people first and give people the 
tools they need” to trust that Facebook would keep their data 
safe. That same year, however, Zuckerberg and Sandberg 
created a “reciprocity” system in which certain third-party 
apps that provided “reciprocal value to Facebook” could be 
“whitelisted,” meaning that those apps were exempt from the 
ban on third- party data access and collection. The 
whitelisting practice continued until mid-2018. 
In September 2015, Facebook employees noticed that 
Cambridge Analytica was “receiving vast amounts of 
Facebook user data.” Facebook’s political team described 
Cambridge Analytica as a “sketchy” firm that had 
“penetrated” Facebook’s market and requested an 
investigation into what Cambridge Analytica was doing with 
the data. The platform policies team concluded that it was 
unlikely Cambridge Analytica could use Facebook users’ 

4 Press Release, Fed. Trade Comm’n, FTC Imposes $5 Billion Penalty 
and Sweeping New Privacy Restrictions on Facebook (July 24, 2019), 
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2019/07/ftc-
imposes-5-billion-penalty-sweeping-new-privacy-restrictions-facebook. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 11 
data for political purposes without violating Facebook’s 
policies. In November 2015, Facebook paid Aleksandr 
Kogan, a Cambridge University academic who helped 
Cambridge Analytica obtain user data from Fac ebook, to 
give an internal presentation on the lessons he learned from 
collecting and working with the Facebook data. 
Trouble for Facebook began in December 2015, when 
The Guardian reported that Cambridge Analytica had 
created a database of information about American voters by 
harvesting their Facebook data. 5 The harvested data 
originated from a personality quiz integrated onto Facebook 
by Kogan. When Facebook users completed the quiz, Kogan 
gained access to their data as well as data from their 
Facebook friends who had not taken the quiz, including each 
user’s name, gender, location, birthdate, “ likes,” and list of 
Facebook friends. Facebook’s app review team initially 
rejected the personality quiz because it collect ed more user 
data than necessary to operate, but the quiz nonetheless 
became available to Facebook users. Although only about 
250,000 Facebook users took the personality quiz, Kogan 
harvested data from over thirty million users, most of whom 
did not consent to the data collection. 
Kogan used the Facebook “likes” collected from the quiz 
to train an algorithm that assigned personality scores to 
Facebook users, including users who had not taken the quiz. 
The information was saved in a database that classified 
American voters by scoring them on five personality trai ts: 
“openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, 

5 See Harry Davies, Ted Cruz Using Firm that Harvested Data on 
Millions of Unwitting Facebook Users , Guardian (Dec. 11, 2015), 
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/dec/11/senator-ted-cruz-
president-campaign-facebook-user-data. 
12 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
agreeableness, and neuroticism (the ‘OCEAN scale’).” 
According to The Guardian, Cambridge Analytica used the 
harvested OCEAN scale data to help Ted Cruz’s presidential 
campaign “gain an edge ov er Donald Trump” in the 
Republican Party primaries. 
In response to t he Guardian article, a Facebook 
spokesperson stated that the company was “carefully 
investigating” the situation, that misusing user data was a 
violation of Facebook’s policies, and that the company 
would “take swift action” against third parties found to have 
misused Facebook users’ data. In a private email exchange 
in December 2015, a Facebook executive told a Cambridge 
Analytica executive that Cambridge Analytica violated 
Facebook’s policies and terms by using data that Kogan 
“improperly derived” from Facebook. Cambridge Analytica 
agreed in January 2016 to delete the personality score data 
harvested from Facebook. 
Notwithstanding Cambridge Analytica’s assurance that 
it would delete the data, Facebook continued to investigat e 
the data usage . In June 2016, Facebook negotiated a 
confidential settlement with Koga n, who certified that he 
had deleted the data in his possession derived from Facebook 
“likes.” Kogan also provided Facebook with the identity of 
every entity with which he had shared raw Facebook use r 
data. In doing so, Kogan revealed that he had shared 
derivative and raw data from Facebook users —not just the 
personality score data— with Cambridge Analytica’s chief 
executive, Alexander Nix, and that the data was still being 
used in violation of Facebook’s stated policies. Facebook 
asked Nix to certify that all data harvested from the 
Facebook personality quiz was deleted, but Nix refused to 
do so. In October 2016, The Washington Post reported that 
Cambridge Analytica continued to use data based on the 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 13 
OCEAN scale to benefit the Trump presidential campaign. 6 
The article did not say explicitly that the social- media data 
came from Facebook, but the use of the OCEAN scale 
suggested that Cambridge Analytica may have been using 
the data originally harvested from Kogan’s personality quiz 
on Facebook. 
1. Facebook’s Public Filings 
Despite the ongoing developments regarding Cambridge 
Analytica, Facebook represented in its 2016 Form 10- K, 
filed with the Securities Exchange Commission ( “SEC”) in 
February 2017, that third -party misuse of Facebook users’ 
personal data was a purely hypothetical risk that could harm 
the company if it materialized. For example, the 10-K stated 
that “[a]ny failure to prevent or mitigate . . . improper access 
to or disclosure of our data or user data . . . could result in 
the loss or misuse of such data, which could harm 
[Facebook’s] business and reputation and diminish our 
competitive position.” The statements about the risk s of 
improper access or disclosure appeared in the “Risk Factors” 
section of the 10- K, in a subsection that also discussed the 
risks of security breaches such as cyberattacks, hacking, and 
phishing that could result in Facebook user data falling into 
the wrong hands. 
2. Continued Press about Cambridge Analytica 
In March 2017, The Guardian published another article 
about Cambridge Analytica’s political activity. The article 

6 Michael Kranish, Trump’s Plan for a Comeback Includes Building a 
‘Psychographic’ Profile of Every Voter , Wash. Post (Oct. 27, 2016) , 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trumps-plan-for-a-comeback-
includes-building-a-psychographic-profile-of-every-
voter/2016/10/27/9064a706-9611-11e6-9b7c-
57290af48a49_story.html. 
14 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
discussed how Cambridge Analytica used data derived from 
Facebook “likes” to train algorithms and quoted a 
Cambridge Analytica spokesperson’s denial that the firm 
had access to Facebook “likes.”7 The article also quoted a 
Facebook spokesperson’s statement that Facebook’s 
investigation into Cambridge Analytica had not yet 
uncovered any misconduct related to the firm’s work on 
political matters, specifically the Trump presidential 
campaign or the Brexit Leave campaign. A Facebook 
spokesperson made similar comments to journalists later that 
month.
8 Throughout 2017 and early 2018, Facebook and its 
executives assured Facebook users that “no one is going to 
get your data that shouldn’t have it,” that Facebook and its 
apps had “long been focused on giving people transparency 
and control,” and more. 
On March 12, 2018, T he New York Times and The 
Guardian contacted Facebook for comment on joint articles 
the outlets planned to publish about Cambridge Analytica’s 
misuse of Facebook users’ data. The articles would report 
that Cambridge Analytica had not actually deleted the 
improperly collected Facebook user data from 2015. Before 

7 Jamie Doward, Carole Cadwalladr & Alice Gibbs, Watchdog to Launch 
Inquiry into Misuse of Data in Politics , Guardian (Mar. 4, 2017), 
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/mar/04/cambridge-
analytics-data-brexit-trump. 
8 Tim Sculthorpe, Privacy Watchdog Launces a Probe into How the 
Leave Campaigns Used Voters’ Personal Data to Win Brexit, Daily Mail 
(Mar. 5, 2017), https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article -
4283102/amp/Privacy-watchdog-launches-probe-Leave-use-data.html; 
Mattathias Schwartz, Facebook Failed to Protect 30 Million Users From 
Having Their Data Harvested By Trump Campaign Affiliate , Intercept 
(Mar. 30, 2017), https://theintercept.com/2017/03/30/facebook-failed-
to-protect-30-million-users-from-having-their-data-harvested-by-
trump-campaign-affiliate/. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 15 
the articles went to print, Facebook announced on its 
investor relations website that it was suspending Cambridge 
Analytica for violating its policies by sharing Facebook 
users’ data without the users’ consent and for failing to 
delete the improperly collected data . Facebook explained 
that, in 2015, it had demanded certification that Cambridge 
Analytica and Kogan had destroyed the harvested user data, 
but that Facebook had just learned that not all the data was 
deleted. Soon after , The New York Times reported that 
Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook users’ data was 
“one of the largest data leaks in the social network’s 
history.”
9 The article took the position that most people 
whose data was harvested had not consented to the 
collection, that Cambridge Analytica had used the data to 
benefit the Trump presidential campaign in 2016, and that 
“copies of the data still remain [ed] beyond Facebook’s 
control.”
Other media outlets and government officials sprang into 
action. Political figures in the United States and Europe 
called for investigation into the Cambridge Analytica 
privacy scandal. Reporters wrote that Facebook knew about 
the data breach for years and failed to disclose it to the 
millions of affected users. In particular, CNN observed that 
“[n]o one ha [d] provided an adequate explanation for why 
Facebook did not disclose Kogan’s violation to the more 
than 50 million users who were affected when the com pany 

9 Matthew Rosenberg, Nicholas Confessore & Carole Cadwalladr , How 
Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of Millions , N.Y. 
Times (Mar. 17, 2018), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/17/us/politics/cambridge-analytica-
trump-campaign.html. 
10 Id. 
16 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
first learned about it in 2015.”11 That same day, an article in 
Seeking Alpha warned that “[i]f Cambridge Analytica was 
able to acquire information on tens of millions of Facebook 
users so quickly and easily, and then keep the information 
for years without Facebook suspecting otherwise, then that 
shows a serious flaw in Facebook’s ability to keep exclusive 
control over its information.”
3. Facebook’s Stock Price Drop and Low Revenue and 
Profit Growth 
The price of Facebook’s stock declined significantly in 
the week that followed the Cambridge Analytica revelations. 
On March 19, 2018—the first trading day after the news 
broke—Facebook shares fell almost 7%. The next day, 
Facebook shares fell an additional 2.5%. After one week, 
Facebook’s stock price had dropped nearly 18% from the 
price before the news about Cambridge Analytica was 
published, reflecting a loss of more than $100 billion in 
market capitalization. At this juncture, the shareholders filed 
their first securities fraud complaint against Facebook. 
In the aftermath, Facebook reiterated its statements that 
users have privacy and control over their personal data on 
the platform. At an April 2018 press conference, Zuckerberg 
stated that “you have control over everything you put on the 
service.” Later that month, Zuckerberg issued a public post 

11 Dylan Byers, Facebook Is Facing an Existential Crisis , CNN (Mar. 
19, 2018), 
https://money.cnn.com/2018/03/19/technology/business/facebook-data-
privacy-crisis/index.html. 
12 Erich Reimer, The Cambridge Analytica Mishap Is Serious for 
Facebook, Seeking Alpha (Mar. 19, 2018), 
https://seekingalpha.com/article/4157578-cambridge-analytica-mishap-
is-serious-for-facebook. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 17 
on Facebook, saying: “You’ve been hearing a lot about 
Facebook lately and how your data is being used. While this 
information can sometimes be confusing and technical, it’s 
important to know that you are in control of your Facebook, 
what you see, what you share, and what people see about 
you.” Zuckerberg also testified before the U nited States 
Senate that users have control over both what they share on 
Facebook and their personal data connected to 
advertisements on the platform. 
On June 3, 2018, more news emerged about Facebook’s 
privacy practices. The New York Times reported that 
Facebook had continued sharing the data of users and their 
Facebook friends with dozens of whitelisted third parties like 
Apple, Microsoft, and Samsung without the users’ express 
consent.
13 The article reported that Facebook’s whitelisting 
policy violated the company’s FTC consent decree and 
contradicted Zuckerberg’s 2014 announcement that 
Facebook’s third-party data sharing practice had been 
shuttered.
14 An FTC investigator testified before the 
Parliament of the United Kingdom that, for nearly a decade, 
the whitelisted apps were allowed to completely override 
Facebook users’ privacy settings. Multiple n ews outlets 
subsequently reported that Facebook shared its users’ data 
with foreign entities “believed to be national security risks” 
without the users’ knowledge. 
Finally, on July 25, 2018, Facebook announced 
unexpectedly low revenue growth, profitability, and user 
growth in its Q2 earnings call. Facebook stated that the 

13 Gabriel J.X. Dance, Nicholas Confessore & Michael Laforgia, 
Facebook Gave Device Makers Deep Access to Data on Users and 
Friends, N.Y. Times (June 3, 2018), https://nyti.ms/3aFIMAI. 
14 Id. 
18 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
disappointing revenue growth occurred because it was 
“putting privacy first” as well as implementing the European 
Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). 
Zuckerberg reported that the GDPR rollout also resulted in a 
decline in monthly Facebook users across Europe. The day 
after the earnings call , Facebook’s stock price dropped 
nearly 19%. Analysts and investors attributed the stock drop 
to the company’s GDPR implementation, the requisite 
increased security and privacy required of tech compani es, 
and the Cambridge Analytica and whitelisting scandals. 
4. Filing of Amended Complaints 
The revelation of the Cambridge Analytica and 
whitelisting scandals and the two Facebook stock price drops 
precipitated an amended filing by the shareholders in 
October 2018. The shareholders amended the complaint 
again in November 2019 (Second Amended Complaint) and 
October 2020 (Third Amended Complaint). T hey brought 
claims against Facebook, Zuckerberg, Sandberg, and 
Wehner under Sections 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 of the 
Exchange Act’s implementing regulations. The 
shareholders allege that Facebook, through the executive 
defendants or a company spokesperson, made several false 
or materially misleading state ments between February 3, 
2017, and July 25, 2018, “the class period.” The challenged 
statements fall into three categories: (1) statements in 
Facebook’s 2016 Form 10-K regarding the risk of improper 
third-party access to and disclosure of Facebook users’ data; 
(2) statements regarding Facebook’s investigation into 
Cambridge Analytica’s 2015 misconduct; and (3) statements 
regarding the control Facebook users have over their data on 
the platform. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 19 
The district court dismissed the shareholders’ First 
Amended Complaint and Second Amended Complaint 
without prejudice under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 
12(b)(6), giving the shareholders leave to amend both times. 
After determining that the Third Amended Complaint failed 
to remedy the deficiencies of the first two amended filings , 
the district court dismissed the shareholders’ claims without 
leave to amend. 
II. A
NALYSIS 
Although the scope of claims under Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 10b- 5 of the Exchange Act’s 
implementing regulations is well understood and well -tread 
in the Ninth Circuit, the se principles bear repeating so that 
our analysis is viewed in context. 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act , 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), 
prohibits “manipulative or deceptive ” practices in 
connection with the purchase or sale of a security. See In re 
Alphabet Sec. Litig., 1 F.4th 687, 699 (9th Cir. 2021). Rule 
10b-5 of the Exchange Act’s implementing regulations is 
coextensive with Section 10(b). S.E.C. v. Zandford, 535 
U.S. 813, 816 n.1 (2002). The Rule prohibits making “any 
untrue statement of a material fact” or omitting material facts 
“necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light 
of the circumstances under which they were made, not 
misleading.” Glazer Cap. Mgmt., L.P. v. Forescout Techs., 
Inc. (Glazer II), 63 F.4th 747, 764 (9th Cir. 2023) (quoting 
17 C.F.R. § 240.10b- 5(b)). To state a claim under Section 
10(b) and Rule 10b-5, “a plaintiff must allege: (1) a material 
misrepresentation or omission by the defendant ( ‘falsity’); 
(2) scienter; (3) a connection between the misrepresentation 
or omission and the purchase or sale of a security; (4) 
reliance upon the misrepresentation or omission; (5) 
20 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
economic loss; and (6) loss causation.” Id. (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (quoting In re NVIDIA Corp. Sec. 
Litig., 768 F.3d 1046, 1052 (9th Cir. 2014)). Claims under 
Sections 20(a) and 20A of the Exchange Act are derivative 
“and therefore require an independent violation of the 
Exchange Act,” so the shareholders must successfully plead 
a Section 10(b) claim to succeed on their claims under 
Sections 20(a) and 20A. See Johnson v. Aljian, 490 F.3d 
778, 781 (9th Cir. 2007); see also Glazer II, 63 F.4th at 765. 
Complaints alleging securities fraud are also subject to 
heightened pleading requirements under the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act (“PSLRA”) and Rule 9(b). 
Glazer II , 63 F.4th at 765. The PSLRA requires that 
complaints alleging falsity “specify each statement alleged 
to have been misl eading, the reason or reasons why the 
statement is misleading, and, if an allegation regarding the 
statement or omission is made on information and belief, the 
complaint shall state with particularity all facts on which that 
belief is formed.” Id. (quoting 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(b)(1)). To 
plead scienter under the PSLRA, “the complaint must ‘state 
with particularity facts giving rise to a strong inference that 
the defendant acted with the required state of mind.’” Id. at 
766 (quoting 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(b)(2)(A)). When evaluating 
“whether the strong inference standard is met,” the court first 
“determines whether any one of the plaintiff’s allegations is 
alone sufficient to give rise to a strong inference of scienter.” 
Id. If no individual allegation is sufficient, the court 
“conducts a ‘holistic’ review to determine whether the 
allegations combine to give rise to a strong inference of 
scienter.” Id. (quoting Zucco Partners, LLC v. Digimarc 
Corp., 552 F.3d 981, 992 (9th Ci r. 2009) ). Rule 9(b) 
similarly requires plaintiffs to “state with particularity the 
circumstances constituting fraud.” Id. at 765 (quoting Fed. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 21 
R. Civ. P. 9(b)). Fraud allegations under Rule 9(b) “must be 
‘specific enough to give defendants notice of the particular 
misconduct which is alleged to constitute the fraud charged 
so that they can defend against the charge and not just deny 
that they have done anything wrong.’” Id. (quoting Bly-
Magee v. California, 236 F.3d 1014, 1019 (9th Cir. 2001)). 
We review de novo the dismissal of a complaint for 
failure to state a claim , accepting the factual allegations as 
true and viewing the facts “in the light most favorable” to the 
shareholders. Id. at 763. In addition to the pleading 
requirements of the PSLRA and Rule 9(b), Rule 8(a) 
requires that a complaint “contain sufficient factual matter, 
accepted as true, to ‘state a claim to relief that is plausible on 
its face.’” Id. (quoting Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678 
(2009)). The factual allegations in the compla int must 
“allow[] the court to draw the reasonable inference that the 
defendant is liable for the misconduct alleged.” Id. (quoting 
Iqbal, 556 U.S. at 678). 
A. Risk Statements 
The essence of the challenged risk statements is that , 
although Facebook knew Cambridge Analytic a had 
improperly accessed and used Facebook users’ data, 
Facebook represented in its 2016 Form 10-K that only the 
hypothetical risk of im proper third-party misuse of 
Facebook users’ data could harm Facebook’s business, 
reputation, and competitive position. For example, 
Facebook’s 2016 10-K warned that the “failure to prevent or 
mitigate security breaches and improper access to or 
disclosure of our data or user data could result in the loss or 
misuse of such data” and that if “ third parties or developers 
fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices . . . 
our data or our users’ data may be improperly accessed, used, 
22 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
or disclosed.” Additionally, two of the challenged 
statements warn that Facebook cannot provide “absolute 
[data] security” and that Facebook’s business will suffer if 
the public does not perceiv e Facebook’s products to be 
“useful, reliable, and trustworthy.” 
The district court held that the shareholders failed to 
plead falsity as to the risk statements , but its holding 
predated our decision in In re Alphabet. Without the benefit 
of our reasoning in In re Alphabet, the district court held that 
the risk statements were not actionably false because 
Cambridge Analytica’s misconduct was public knowledge at 
the time the statements were made and because, while the 
10-K warned of risk s of harm to Facebo ok’s business, 
reputation, and competitive position, the shareholders failed 
to allege that Cambridge Analytica ’s misconduct was 
causing such harm when the statements were made. This 
approach overlooks the reality of what Facebook knew. 
In the securities fraud context, statements and omissions 
are actionably false or misleading if they “directly contradict 
what the defendant knew at that time,” Khoja v. Orexigen 
Therapeutics, Inc., 899 F.3d 988, 1008 (9th Cir. 2018) , or 
“create an impress ion of a state of affairs that differs in a 
material way from the one that actually exists,” Brody v. 
Transitional Hosps . Corp., 280 F.3d 997, 1006 (9th Cir. 
2002). The Exchange Act does not, however, “create an 
affirmative duty to disclose any and all ma terial 
information.” Glazer II, 63 F.4th at 764 (quoting Matrixx 
Initiatives, Inc. v. Siracusano, 563 U.S. 27, 44 (2011)) . 
Disclosure is mandatory only when necessary to ensure that 
a statement made is “not misleading.” Id. (quoting Matrixx 
Initiatives, 563 U.S. at 44). Accordingly, if the market has 
already “become aware of the allegedly concealed 
information,” the allegedly false information or material 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 23 
omission “‘would already be reflected in the stock’s price’ 
and the market ‘will not be misled.’” Provenz v. Miller, 102 
F.3d 1478, 1492 (9th Cir. 1996) (quoting In re Convergent 
Techs. Sec. Litig., 948 F.2d 507, 513 (9th Cir. 1991)). 
Our recent decision in In re Alphabet is instructive. We 
held that falsity allegations were sufficient to survive a 
motion to dismiss when the complaint plausibly alleged that 
a company’s SEC filings warned that risks “could” occur 
when, in fact, those risks had already materialized. I n re 
Alphabet, 1 F.4th at 702–05. This juxtaposition of a “could 
occur” situation with the fact that the risk had materialized 
mirrors the allegations in the Facebook scenario. In its 2017 
Form 10-K, Alphabet warned of the risk that public concerns 
about its privacy and security practices “ could” harm its 
reputation and operating results. Id. at 694. The following 
year, Alphabet discovered a privacy bug that had threatened 
thousands of users’ personal data for three years. Id. at 695. 
Nonetheless, in its April and July 2018 Form 10- Q filings, 
Alphabet repeated the 2017 statement that public concern 
about its privacy and security “could” cause harm. Id. at 
696. In the 10-Qs, Alphabet also stated that there had “been 
no material changes” to its “risk factors” since the 2017 10-
K. Id. Although news of the privacy bug had not become 
public at the time of the 10-Qs, we reasoned that the risks of 
harm to Alphabet “ripened into actual harm” when Alphabet 
employees discovered the privacy bug and the “new risk that 
this discovery would bec ome public .” Id. at 703. The 
plaintiffs thus “ plausibly allege[d] that Alphabet ’s warning 
in each Form 10-Q of risks that ‘could’ or ‘may’ occur [was] 
misleading to a reasonable investor when Alphabet knew 
that those risks had materialized.” Id. at 704. 
As in In re Alphabet , the shareholders here adequately 
pleaded falsity as to the statements in Facebook’s 2016 10-
24 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
K that represented the risk of third parties improperly 
accessing and using Facebook users’ data as purely 
hypothetical. The shareholders pleaded with particularity 
that Facebook employees flagged Cambridge Analytica in 
September 2015 for potentially violating Facebook’s terms, 
that Kogan taught Facebook in November 2015 about the 
dataset Cambridge Analytica had compiled, and that a 
Facebook executive told Cambridge Analytica in December 
2015 that the firm had violated Facebook’s user data 
policies. The shareholders also alleged that after Facebook 
learned in June 2016 that Cambridge Analytica lied in 
December 2015 about deleting the data derived from 
Facebook “likes,” Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive 
refused to certify that the data had actually been deleted . 
These allegations, if true, more than support the claim that 
Facebook was aware of Cambridge Analytica’s misconduct 
before February 2017, so Facebook’s statements about risk 
management “directly contradict[ed]” what the company 
knew when it filed its 201 6 10-K with the SEC. Glazer II, 
63 F.4th at 764. 
Referencing Facebook’s risk statements as including 
damage to its business, reputation, and competitive position, 
the dissent asserts that t he risk statements in Facebook’s 
2016 10-K were not false or materially misleading because 
they “do not represent that Facebook was free from 
significant breaches at the time of the filing.” The 
inadequacy of the risk statements, however, is not that 
Facebook did not disclose Cambridge Analytica’s breach of 
its security practices. Instead, the problem is that Facebook 
represented the risk of improper access to or disclosure of 
Facebook user data as purely hypothetical when that exact 
risk had already transpired. A reasonable investor reading 
the 10- K would have unders tood the risk of a third party 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 25 
accessing and utilizing Facebook user data improperly to be 
merely conjectural. 
The dissent’s suggestion that the shareholders have not 
adequately pleaded falsity because they “have not 
sufficiently alleged that Facebook knew that its reputation 
and business were already harmed at the time of the filing of 
the 10-K” fares no better. Our case law does not require 
harm to have materialized for a statement to be materially 
misleading. Facebook’s statement was plausibly materially 
misleading even if Facebook did not yet know the extent of 
the reputational harm it would suffer as a result of the breach: 
Because Facebook presented the prospect of a breach as 
purely hypothetical when it had already occurred, such a 
statement could be misleading even if the magnitude of the 
ensuing harm was still unknown. Put differently, a company 
may make a materially misleading statement when it “speaks 
entirely of as -yet-unrealized risks” when the risks have 
“already come to fruition.” Berson v. Applied Signal Tech., 
527 F.3d 982, 987 (9th Cir. 2008); see also In re Alphabet , 
1 F.4th at 702–05 (holding that risk statements in Alphabet’s 
SEC filings were materially misleading even where 
Alphabet’s identi fied harm of damage to its “business, 
financial condition, results of operations,” and more had not 
yet materialized at the time of the filings). The mere fact that 
Facebook did not know whether its reputation was already 
harmed when filing the 10-K does not avoid the reality that 
it “create[d] an impression of a state of affairs that differ[ed] 
in a material way from the one that actually exist[ed].” 
Brody, 280 F.3d at 1006. 
The dissent endeavors to distinguish In re Alphabet by 
explaining that before Alphabet made SEC filings 
containing material misstatements, it circulated an internal 
memorandum detailing that there would be immediate 
26 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
regulatory scrutiny if the public discovered its privacy bug. 
While true , our holding did not rest on the internal 
memorandum to conclude that the statements were plausibly 
materially misleading; instead, we reasoned that a warning 
of “risks that ‘could’ or ‘may’ occur is misleading to a 
reasonable investor when Alphabet knew that those risks”—
the privacy bug itself —“had materialized.” 1 F.4th at 704. 
Here, as in In re Alphabet , it is the fact of the breach itself, 
rather than the anticipation of reputational or financial harm, 
that caused anticipatory statements to be materially 
misleading. Th e shareholders have therefore adequately 
pleaded that the risk statements in Facebook’s 2016 10- K 
directly contradicted what Facebook knew at the time such 
that, in the dissent’s words, Facebook “knew a risk had come 
to fruition” and “chose to bury it.” 
Notably, although the dissent seemingly perceives it 
otherwise, the extent of Cambridge Analytica’s misconduct 
was not yet public when Facebook filed its 2016 10- K. At 
the time, the articles in The Guardian and The Washington 
Post had alerted readers that Cambridge Analytica collected 
data from “a massive pool of mainly unwitting US Facebook 
users.” But the Guardian article quoted a Facebook 
spokesperson saying that the company would take “swift 
action” if Cambridge Analytica was found to have violated 
Facebook’s policies , as well as a Ted Cruz spokesperson 
saying that the data was acquired legally and with the 
permission of Facebook users . In response to the article , 
Facebook stated it was “carefully investigating.” Although 
the articles may have raised concerns about Cambridge 
Analytica’s conduct, Facebook did not confirm before the 
2016 10-K was filed that Cambridge Analytica had acted 
improperly or whether Facebook had taken the “swift 
action” promised if it learned of violations. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 27 
Indeed, Facebook’s first public statement about the 
results of its investigation —which came in March 2017, a 
month after the 2016 10-K was filed —represented that no 
misconduct had been discovered. At the time the 10-K was 
filed in February 2017, the news of Cambridge Analytica’s 
misconduct was far from “transmitted to the public with a 
degree of intensity and credibility sufficient to effectively 
counterbalance any misleading impression.” Provenz , 102 
F.3d at 1493 (citation omitted). 
Importantly, and c ontrary to the dissent’s position, t he 
placement of the risk statements in Facebook’s 2016 10-K 
alongside the possibilities of cyberattacks, hacking, and 
phishing, which the shareholders do not allege had 
materialized at the time of the 10 -K, does not rescue 
Facebook’s omission that the risk of improper access and 
disclosure had occurred from being materially misleading. 
A close read of the 10-K reveals that the stated hypothetical 
risks included the risk of a third -party developer harvesting 
Facebook users’ data without their consent. Indeed, the title 
of the 10-K subsection in which the risk statements appeared 
included the statement that “improper access to or disclosure 
of” Facebook’s “user data” could harm the company’s 
reputation and business. The subsection itself stated that 
“[a]ny failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches and 
improper access to or disclosure of our data or user data 
could result in the loss or misuse of such data.” Kogan and 
Cambridge Analytica ’s actions, while not a cyberattack, 
hacking, or phishing, fit the bill of Facebook failing to 
prevent or mitigate improper access to or disclosure of 
Facebook data. The risk of a third -party improperly 
accessing Facebook user data through methods other than 
hacking, phishing, or any other security breach was 
prominent throughout the subsection and covered the 
28 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
claimed misconduct of Cambridge Analytica. Collapsing 
the risks of improper access to and use of Facebook users’ 
data in the same section as the risk of cyberattacks cannot 
rescue the risk statements from being false or materially 
misleading. 
Additionally, Facebook’s disclosure that “computer 
malware, viruses, social engineering ( predominantly spear 
phishing attacks), and general hacking have become more 
prevalent in our industry, have occurred on our systems in 
the past, and will occur on our systems in the future” does 
not bring the risk stat ements within the protection of the 
PSLRA’s safe harbor provision for forward- looking 
statements. Under the safe harbor, a company is not liable 
for a forward -looking statement “accompanied by 
meaningful cautionary statements identifying important 
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those in the forward-looking statement.” Glazer II, 63 
F.4th at 767 (quoting 15 U.S.C. § 78u-5(c)(1)(A)). 
Our recent decision in Weston Family Partnership v. 
Twitter, Inc., 29 F.4th 611 (9th Cir. 2022), provides a good 
illustration of statements falling within the safe harbor 
provision. There, Twitter disclosed its plan to improve the 
“stability, performance, and flexibility,” of its mobile app 
promotion product gradually “over multiple quarters ” and 
made clear that the company was “not there yet” in terms of 
its stability goals. Id. at 616. At the time, Twitter knew of a 
software bug affecting its mobile app promotion product but 
did not disclose the bug’s impact. Id. We explained that 
Twitter’s disclosure was both forward- looking and 
accompanied by the type of “meaningful cautionary 
language” necessary to invoke the safe harbor provision 
despite the nondisclosure of the software bug. Id. at 623. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 29 
Here, rather than making cautionary forward- looking 
statements, Facebook warned that it could not provide 
“absolute security,” that it would continue to be subject to 
cyberattacks, and that third parties with inadequate data 
security practices could compromise users’ data. Such broad 
pronouncements without meaningful acknowledgement of 
the known risks of improper data access and disclosure does 
not suffice to invoke the safe harbor provision. There is a 
big chasm between “absolute security” and sidestepping the 
reality of what Facebook allegedly knew about the 
compromised data. 
At this stage, the shareholders adequately pleaded falsity 
as to the statements warning that misuse of Facebook users’ 
data could harm Facebook’s business, reputation, and 
competitive position and the district court erred by 
dismissing the complaint as to those statements. The district 
court, however, correctly dismissed the challenged 
statements regarding the risk of se curity breaches and the 
risk of the public not perceiving Facebook’s products to be 
“useful, reliable, and trustworthy.” Those statements do not 
relate to the misuse of Facebook user data by Cambridge 
Analytica, and the shareholders do not allege that those risks 
had materialized at the time of the 2016 10-K such that they 
were false or materially misleading. We leave to the district 
court on remand whether the shareholders can satisfy the 
other elements of the claims with respect to risk statements. 
B. Cambridge Analytica Investigation Statements 
The challenged Cambridge Analytica investigation 
statements include statements made by a Facebook 
spokesperson to journalists in March 2017 that Facebook’s 
internal investigation into Cambridge Analytica had “not 
uncovered anything that suggest[ed] wrongdoing” related to 
30 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
Cambridge Analytica’s work on the Brexit and Trump 
campaigns. The district court held that the shareholders 
failed to plead scienter as to the Cambridge Analytica 
investigation statements. We agree. 
To plead scienter, the shareholders “must ‘state with 
particularity facts giving rise to a strong inference that the 
defendant acted with the required state of mind.’” Glazer II, 
63 F.4th at 766 (quoting 15 U.S.C. § 78u- 4(b)(2)(A)). “A 
‘strong inference’ exists ‘if a reasonable person would deem 
the inference of scienter cogent and at least as compelling as 
any opposing inference one could draw from the facts 
alleged.’” Id. (quoting Tellabs, Inc. v. Makor Issues & Rts., 
Ltd., 551 U.S. 308, 324 (2007)). For obvious reasons, an 
actionably misleading statement must be made by a 
spokesperson “who has actual or apparent authority.” In re 
ChinaCast Educ. Corp. Sec. Litig., 809 F.3d 471, 476 (9th 
Cir. 2015) (quoting Hollinger v. Titan Cap. Corp., 914 F.2d 
1564, 1577 n.28 (9th Cir. 1990)). Thus, “a key inquiry” in 
evaluating a motion to dismiss “is whether the complaint 
sufficiently alleges scienter attributable to the corporation.” 
Id. at 479. 
Of first order is identifying “whether the complaint 
adequately alleged that the maker omitted material 
information knowingly, intentionally, or with deliberate 
recklessness.” In re Alphabet , 1 F.4th at 705. “Deliberate 
recklessness is a higher standard than mere recklessness and 
requires more than a motive to commit fraud.” Glazer II, 63 
F.4th at 765 (quoting Schueneman v. Arena Pharms., Inc., 
840 F.3d 698, 705 (9th Cir. 2016)). Instead, “deliberate 
recklessness” involves “ an extreme departure from the 
standards of ordinary care” that presents “a danger of 
misleading buyers or sellers” that “ is so obvious” that the 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 31 
spokesperson “must have been aware of it.” Id. (quoting 
Schueneman, 840 F.3d at 705). 
Simply raising an inference that a company’s executive 
“should have” discovered misconduct, not that the executive 
actually knew of misconduct, is insufficient “to meet the 
stringent scienter pleading requirements of the PSLRA.” 
Glazer Cap. Mgmt., LP v. Magistri (Glazer I), 549 F.3d 736, 
748–49 (9th Cir. 2008). In Glazer I , the defendant CEO 
signed a merger agreement before announcing months later 
that an investigation early in the merger -related due 
diligence process uncovered possible Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act violations. Id. at 740. The plaintiffs argued 
that because the violations were discovered early, 
information about the violations “must have been readily 
available and therefore known to [the CEO] when he signed 
the merger agreement.” Id. at 748. We held that the CEO 
learning of the violations shortly after due diligence was not 
enough “to create a strong inference of scienter.” Id. The 
only strong inference to be drawn was that the CEO should 
have known of the possible violations, not that he actually 
knew about them, whi ch was insufficient to plead scienter. 
Id. 
As in Glazer I , the shareholders pleaded only that the 
Facebook spokesperson should have known that Facebook’s 
investigation into Cambridge Analytica had uncovered 
misconduct, not that the spokesperson actually knew of any 
misconduct or even that there was a strong inference of an 
“intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud.” I d. at 742 
(quoting Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder , 425 U.S. 185, 193 
n.12 (1976)). The mere reference by an unidentified 
spokesperson to Facebook’s investigation is insufficient to 
show that the spokesperson knowingly or intentionally made 
false or materially misleading statements about the 
32 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
investigation. The shareholders’ allegations do not rise to 
the level of showing that it was “so obvious” that Facebook’s 
investigation had uncovered misconduct related to 
Cambridge Analytica’s political work that the spokesperson 
“must have been aware of it.” Glazer II , 63 F.4th at 765 
(citation omitted). 
Although one might reasonably expect the spokesperson 
to have verified the accuracy of the statements before 
making them, securities fraud actions are not tort actions, 
and “[m]ere negligence — even head-scratching mistakes — 
does not amount to fraud.” Prodanova v. H.C. Wainwright 
& Co., 993 F.3d 1097, 1103 (9th Cir. 2021). Nothing in the 
complaint suggests that the Cambridge Analytica 
investigation statements involved an extreme departure from 
the standards of ordinary care, and the shareholders thus fall 
short of raising a strong inference that the spokesperson 
acted with the necessary malintent. In light of the absence 
of scienter, we need not assess the alleged falsity of the 
statements. We affirm the district court’s dismissal of the 
allegations and agree that the shareholders f ailed to plead 
scienter as to the Cambridge Analytica investigation 
statements. 
C. User Control Statements 
Throughout the class period, Facebook made several 
statements about users’ control over their personal data. The 
statements assured Facebook users that they had control over 
their information and content on Facebook and that 
Facebook’s priorities of transparency and user control 
aligned with the GDPR framework. The following 
Facebook statements are illustrative: “People can control the 
audience for their posts and the apps that can receive their 
data,” “[e]very person gets to control who gets to see their 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 33 
content,” and “ [w]e respected the privacy setting s that 
people had in place.” The shareholders assert that 
Facebook’s stock price dropped after reporting on the 
Cambridge Analytica scandal in March 2018 and 
Facebook’s whitelisting policy in June 2018 revealed the 
falsity of Facebook’s statements about users’ control over 
their data. The y allege that the stock price drops caused 
them to suffer economic loss. 
Pleading loss causation requires a showing that the 
“share price fell significantly after the truth became known.” 
In re Oracle Corp. Sec. Litig., 627 F.3d 376, 392 (9th Cir. 
2010) (quoting Dura Pharms., Inc. v. Broudo, 544 U.S. 336, 
347 (2005)). “[L] oss causation is simply a variant of 
proximate cause.” Lloyd v. CVB Fin. Corp., 811 F.3d 1200, 
1210 (9th Cir. 2016). The shareholders must show that 
Facebook’s “misstatement, as opposed to some other fact, 
foreseeably caused the plaintiff’s loss.” Id. The 
shareholders’ “burden of pleading loss causation is typically 
satisfied by allegations that the defendant revealed the truth 
through ‘corrective disclosures’ which ‘caused the 
company’s stock price to drop and investors to lose money.’” 
Id. at 1209 (quoting Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, 
Inc., 573 U.S. 258, 264 (2014)). 
Neither the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure nor the 
federal securities laws “impose any special further 
requirement in respect to the pleading of proximate 
causation or economic los s” beyond the “short and plain 
statement of the claim” required by Rule 8. Dura Pharms., 
544 U.S. at 346. At the pleading stage, it is generally 
inappropriate to dismiss for failure to establish loss 
causation. In re Gilead Scis. Sec. Litig., 536 F.3d 1049, 1057 
(9th Cir. 2008) (agreeing that loss causation “is a matter of 
proof at trial and not to be decided on a Rule 12(b)(6) motion 
34 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
to dismiss” (citation omitted)) . Put differently, if a 
complaint proffers sufficient facts “to raise a reasonable 
expectation that discovery will reveal evidence” of loss 
causation, the allegations therein should survive a motion to 
dismiss. Id. (quoting Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly , 550 U.S. 
544, 556 (2007)). 
As an initial matter, the district court correctly held that 
the shareholders failed to plead sufficiently that Facebook’s 
statements about the company’s commitment to 
transparency and control in line with the GDPR framework 
violated Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5. As Facebook notes, 
those statements “merely reiterated Facebook’s ongoing 
commitment to ‘transparency and control’” rather than 
assuring users they controlled their Facebook data, and thus 
were not false when they were made. Further, the June 2018 
whitelisting revelation, which was unaccompanied by a 
stock price drop, is not actionable. See Lloyd , 811 F.3d at 
1210. We affirm the dismissal of the statements related to 
Facebook’s goals of transparency and control , and the June 
2018 whitelisting revelation as a standalone claim. 
However, we reverse the dismissal as to other statements 
related to the stock drops. 
1. March 2018 Stock Price Drop 
Most of the challenged user control statements occurred 
after the March 16, 2018, revelation about Cambridge 
Analytica and thus cannot be pegged to the March 2018 
stock price drop. However, the user control statements that 
preceded the revelation are relevant here, and the 
shareholders adequately pleaded loss causation as to the 
statements assuring users that they control their content and 
information on the platform. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 35 
The shareholders adequately pleaded that the March 
2018 revelation about Cambridge Analytica was the first 
time Facebook investors were alerted that Facebook users 
did not have complete control over their own data. As 
previously discussed, the 2015 and 2016 articles in T he 
Guardian and The Washington Post did not reveal that 
Cambridge Analytica had misused Facebook users’ data. 
Facebook’s public response to the Guardian article in 2015 
was that it was “carefully investigating” Cambridge 
Analytica. 
The shareholders also adequately allege that Facebook 
did not make public statements about the Ca mbridge 
Analytica issue between 2015 and 2018. Before the March 
2018 news broke, reasonable investors would not have 
known that Cambridge Analytica had improperly accessed 
Facebook users’ data such that users did not have control 
over their personal information on the platform. In the week 
that followed the revelation , Facebook’s stock dropped 
nearly 18%, representing a loss of over $100 billion in 
market capitalization and plausibly causing economic loss 
for the shareholders. 
The Cambridge Analytica revelation thus satisfies the 
pleading criteria for a corrective disclosure, which requires 
allegations that “the defendant’s fraud was ‘revealed to the 
market and caused the resulting loss [].’” Grigsby v. BofI 
Holding, Inc., 979 F.3d 1198, 1205 (9th Cir. 2020) (quoting 
Loos v. Immersion Corp., 762 F.3d 880, 887 (9th Cir. 2014)). 
A disclosure is not corrective if the information comes 
entirely from public sources “of which the stock market was 
presumed to be aware.” Id. (quoting Loos, 762 F.3d at 889). 
Here, because the 2015 and 2016 articles about Cambridge 
Analytica did not provide investors the necessary 
information to learn that Facebook users did not control their 
36 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
data, the shareholders adequately alleged that the March 
2018 revelation was a corrective disclosure as to Facebook’s 
statements that users control their data on the platform. We 
reverse the district court ’s dismissal of Facebook’s 
statements about users controlling their own Facebook da ta 
that preceded the March 16, 2018, revelation. 
2. July 2018 Stock Price Drop 
The July 2018 drop occurred immediately after 
Facebook’s disappointing earnings report and was tied to 
approximately $100 billion of shareholder value loss. At the 
time, it was the largest single -day stock price drop in U.S. 
history. The question is whether the shareholders adequately 
pleaded loss causation as to Facebook’s user control 
statements predating the March 16, 2018, Cambridge 
Analytica revelation and the June 3, 2018, whitelisting 
revelation, even though the stock drop did not occur until 
July 25, 2018. 
Because loss causation requires that the defendant’s 
misstatement, rather than some other fact, foreseeably 
caused the plaintiff’s loss, establishing loss causati on 
requires more than “an earnings miss ” or the market’s 
reaction to a company’s “poor financial health generally.” 
In re Oracle, 627 F.3d at 392. Simply pleading “that the 
market reacted to the p urported ‘impact’ of the alleged 
fraud—the earnings miss—rather than to the fraudulent acts 
themselves” is not sufficient. Id. 
Illustrative of a disconnect between earnings and 
causation is In re Oracle, where the shareholders argued that 
Oracle’s misstatements regarding the “quality and success” 
of its Suite 11i product, rather than its struggling financial 
health, caused the company’s stock price to drop. Id. at 392–
93. The shareholders posited that because the stock price 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 37 
drop occurred immediately after the truth about Suite 11i 
became public, the revelation of the truth must have caused 
the price drop. Id. In affirming summary judgment for 
Oracle, we explained that the “overwhelming evidence 
produced during discovery indi cate[d] the market 
understood Oracle’s earnings miss to be a result of several 
deals lost in the final weeks of the quarter due to customer 
concern over the declining economy,” not the alleged Suite 
11i fraud. Id. at 393. 
Another wrinkle here is whether loss causation 
allegations can survive a motion to dismiss even when the 
stock price drop did not immediately follow the revelation 
of the misstatement. In In re Gilead , the market learned in 
August 2003 that Gilead had agg ressively marketed a drug 
by claiming that the company had “carefully complied with 
federal and state regulations” when, in fact, a warning letter 
from the Food and Drug Administration had informed 
Gilead that its marketing claims were unlawful. 536 F.3d at 
1051. Gilead’s stock price did not drop until October 2003, 
following a press release revealing “less -than-expected 
revenues.” Id. at 1054, 1058. Despite the time gap between 
the revelation and the stock price drop, the shareholder s 
claimed that Gilead’s misrepresentations caused its stock 
price to inflate, and the subsequent disappointing revenue 
performance and stock price drop sufficed to plead loss 
causation. Id. at 1056. 
Acknowledging the time gap, we held that the 
shareholders adequately pleaded loss causation and 
reiterated that there is no “bright -line rule requiring an 
immediate market reaction” after a revelation because “[t]he 
market is subject to distortions that prevent the ideal of a free 
and open public market from occurring.” Id. at 1057–58 
(alteration in original) (citation omitted) . Accordingly, the 
38 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
shareholders plausibly alleged that Gilead’s stock price drop 
occurred immediately after the company revealed its 
disappointing revenue numbers, and the drop was caused by 
lower demand resulting from the warning letters. Id. As we 
explained, it was reasonable for the public to fail to 
appreciate the significance of the warning letter s until 
learning of Gilead’s disappointing revenue posting. Id. 
Aligning ourselves with the Second and Third Circuits , we 
concluded that “loss causation ‘is a matter of proof at trial’” 
so “it is normally inappropriate to rule on loss causation at 
the pleading stage.” Id. at 1057 (quoting Emergent Cap. Inv. 
Mgmt., LLC v. Stonepath Grp., Inc., 343 F.3d 189, 197 (2d 
Cir. 2003)); see also McCabe v. Ernst & Young, LLP , 494 
F.3d 418, 427 n.4 (3d Cir. 2007). Because the shareholders 
pleaded sufficient facts to raise a reasonable expectation that 
discovery would reveal evidence of the warning letter ’s 
“effect on demand,” the loss causation claim survived 
Gilead’s motion to dismiss. In re Gilead, 536 F.3d at 1058. 
For Facebook’s July 2018 stock price drop to be 
actionable, it must be because Facebook’s earnings report 
revealed new information to the market; specifically, that 
Facebook’s Q2 earnings call in July 2018 allowed the public 
to “appreciate [the] significance” of the Cambridge 
Analytica and whitelisting scandals. I d. The disappointing 
Q2 earnings performance alone cannot satisfy the 
shareholders’ burden of pleading loss causation. 
Here, as in In re Gilead , the shareholders adequately 
pleaded that the Cambridge Analytica and whitelisting 
revelations, not any other factor, caused the July 2018 stock 
price drop. Although the stock drop occurred nearly two 
months after the whitelisting revelation, the shareholders 
sufficiently allege that the drop was caused by “dramatically 
lowered user engagement, substantially decreased 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 39 
advertising revenue and earnings, and reduced growth 
expectations going forward” on account of the Cambridge 
Analytica and whitelisting sca ndals. The shareholders 
further detail how the GDPR rollout had little impact on the 
July 2018 earnings report, and how investors and market 
analysts explicitly connected the revenue drop to the 
scandals. These allegations suffice to plead “a causal 
relationship” between the Cambridge Analytica and 
whitelisting revelations and the dramatic drop in Facebook’s 
stock price. Id. at 1057. We emphasize that this case is at 
the very early motion to dismiss stage, that the shareholders 
have raised “a reasonable expectation that discovery will 
reveal evidence” of loss causation , id. (quoting Twombly, 
550 U.S. at 556), and that discovery and further proceedings 
are necessary to illuminate the issues surrounding loss 
causation. 
Our dissenting colleague would affirm the district 
court’s dismissal of the user control statements as they relate 
to the Cambridge Analytica re velation. Stated differently, 
the dissent would hold that only the July 2018 stock price 
drop was actionable , and only as to the whitelisting 
revelation, not the Cambridge Analytica revelation. 
In support, the dissent contends that the 2018 
“Cambridge A nalytica disclosures did not make the user 
control statements materially false,” because “Cambridge 
Analytica’s lies to Facebook and its continued violation of 
Facebook’s privacy policies do not mean that Facebook’s 
privacy protections do not actually exis t.” But the question 
is not whether and when Cambridge Analytica lied to 
Facebook, but whether and when Facebook learned of 
Cambridge Analytica’s deception. It is true that in January 
2016, Cambridge Analytica agreed to delete the personality 
score data i t harvested from Facebook. But recall that the 
40 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
shareholders pleaded that Facebook had reason to know in 
June 2016—only five months later —that Cambridge 
Analytica had received much more information from 
Facebook than just the personality score data and tha t 
Cambridge Analytica was still using a model based on the 
data in violation of Facebook’s policies. The shareholders 
further allege that when Facebook found out, it tried to 
require Cambridge Analytica’s CEO to certify that all data 
harvested from the pe rsonality quiz was deleted, but the 
CEO refused to do so. Thus, the shareholders pleaded with 
particularity that Facebook knew Cambridge Analytica did 
not delete all the data it had improperly accessed. 
We agree with the dissent that “a supposed bad act or 
violating Facebook’s privacy controls to improperly access 
user data doesn’t make the company’s statements about its 
policies misleading.” But labeling Cambridge Analytica as 
a “bad actor” is not the issue. I t was not Cambridge 
Analytica’s deception that made Facebook’s user control 
statements misleading. Rather, i t was that Facebook knew 
Cambridge Analytica retained access to improperly 
collected user data after Cambridge Analytica certified that 
it had deleted the personality score data, and Facebook 
nonetheless falsely represented to users that they had control 
over their data on the platform. The shareholders adequately 
pleaded loss causation as to the stock price drops that 
occurred after the Cambridge Analytica revelation in March 
and July 2018. Accordingly, we reverse the district court’s 
dismissal of Facebo ok’s statements regarding data control 
that predated the June 3, 2018, whitelisting revelation. 
III. C
ONCLUSION 
We affirm in part and reverse in part as to dismissal 
based on the risk statements and user control statements, and 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 41 
we affirm as to dismissal based on the Cambridge Analytica 
investigation statements. Specifically, we affirm the 
dismissal of the statements in ¶¶ 503–05, 530, 533, and 537–
38 of the Third Amended Compl aint, reverse the district 
court’s dismissal of the statements in ¶¶ 501–02, 507–14, 
519, and 525, and remand for further proceedings . Each 
party shall bear its own costs. 
AFFIRMED IN PART, REVERSED IN PART, AND 
REMANDED IN PART. 

BUMATAY, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part: 

At issue here are three general categories of alleged false 
statements: (1) statements about Facebook’s risk factors, (2) 
statements about Facebook’s investigation of Cambridge 
Analytica, and (3) statements about Facebook users’ control 
over their data. I join the majority in holding that the 
plaintiff Shareholders failed to sufficiently allege a falsity in 
the second category —Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica 
investigation statements. I also join the majority in holding 
that Shareholders did allege a falsity and loss from the third 
category of user control statements —but only as those 
statements relate to Facebook’s practice of “whitelisting.” 
So I disagree with the majority on two fundamental 
points. First, Shareholders failed to sufficient ly allege that 
Facebook’s risk factor statements in its public filings were 
fraudulent. Second, Shareholders didn’t show that 
Facebook’s user control statements were false based on the 
Cambridge Analytica revelations. I briefly set out my 
disagreement below. 
42 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
I. 
Risk Factor Statements 
Federal securities law creates no “affirmative duty to 
disclose any and all material information.” Matrixx 
Initiatives, Inc. v. Siracusano, 563 U.S. 27, 44 (2011). 
Rather, companies must disclose information “only when 
necessary ‘to make . . . statements made, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not 
misleading.’” Id. (quoting 17 CFR § 240.10b–5(b)). Thus, 
companies “can control what they have to disclose . . . by 
controlling what they say to the market.” Id. at 45. 
Indeed, companies have no “obligation to offer an 
instantaneous update of every internal” or “fleeting” 
development. Weston Fam. P’ship LLLP v. Twitter, Inc., 29 
F.4th 611, 620 (9th Cir. 2022). Instead, a “company must 
disclose a negative internal development only if its omission 
would make other statements materially misleading.” Id . 
Put differently, statements and omissions are actionable only 
if they “directly contradict what the defendant knew at that 
time,” Khoja v. Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc., 899 F.3d 988, 
1008 (9th Cir. 2018), or “create an impression of a state of 
affairs that differs in a material way from the one that 
actually exists,” Brody v. Transitional Hosps. Corp., 280 
F.3d 997, 1006 (9th Cir. 2002). In assessing this question, 
we look to the “total mix” of information available to the 
reasonable investor and whether the alleged misstatement 
“significantly altered” the decision-making of the reasonable 
investor. Retail Wholesale & Dep’t Store Union Loc. 338 
Ret. Fund v. Hewlett-Packard Co., 845 F.3d 1268, 1274 (9th 
Cir. 2017) (simplified); see also In re Syntex Corp. Sec. 
Litig., 95 F.3d 922, 929 (9th Cir. 1996) (requiring evaluation 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 43 
of the “statement in full and in context at the time it was 
made”). 
Shareholders’ alleg ations stem from Facebook’s 2016 
SEC Form 10-K “Risk Factors” statements, dated February 
3, 2017. Facebook made these statements in the context of 
the following bolded headline: 
• “Security breaches and improper 
access to or disclosure of our data or 
user d ata, or other hacking and 
phishing attacks on our systems, could 
harm our reputation and adversely 
affect our business.” 
Under that header, Facebook gave these warnings: 
• “Any failure to prevent or mitigate 
security breaches and improper access to 
or disc losure of our data or user data 
could result in the loss or misuse of such 
data, which could harm our business and 
reputation and diminish our competitive 
position.” 
• “We provide limited information to . . . 
third parties based on the scope of 
services provided to us. However, if these 
third parties or developers fail to adopt or 
adhere to adequate data security 
practices . . . our data or our users’ data 
44 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
may be improperly accessed, used, or 
disclosed.” 
Shareholders argue —and the majority agrees —that all 
three of these statements are misleading because, by 
February 2017, Facebook already knew that Cambridge 
Analytica had gained improper access to the data of tens of 
millions of Facebook users. According to the majority, this 
means that the statements directly contradicted what the 
company knew when it filed its 10-K. 
There’s a problem with this analysis. Even if Facebook 
knew about the full extent of the so- called Cambridge 
Analytica scandal at this point, none of this makes the risk 
factor statements false. Recall the facts of the scandal. In 
2015, Facebook became aware that Cambridge Analytica—
through a consulting academic —had developed a 
personality quiz that harvested data from more than thirty 
million Facebook users, often without the users’ consent. 
This quiz gave Cambridge Analytica access to Facebook 
users’ name, gender, location, birthdate, “likes,” and 
“friends,” which made it possible to develop an algorithm to 
sort Facebook users according to personality traits. 
Cambridge Analytica then all egedly used that algorithm to 
help political campaigns. 
Regardless of the severity of Cambridge Analytica’s 
alleged misconduct, a careful reading of the 10-K statements 
shows that these risk factor statements warn about harm to 
Facebook’s “business” and “ reputation” that “could” 
materialize based on improper access to Facebook users’ 
data—not about the occurrence or non- occurrence of data 
breaches. How do we know that? Well, the statements say 
so. The first and second statements expressly advise that 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 45 
improper breaches “could harm” Facebook’s “business” and 
“reputation.” 
And although the third statement does not expressly 
mention business and reputational harm, we know that is its 
focus for two reasons. First, Facebook reported the 
statement under the bolded section about breaches and 
improper actions “ could harm [Facebook’s] reputation 
and adversely affect our business.” Second, the very next 
sentence places that statement into more context: “Affected 
users or government authorities could initiate legal or 
regulatory actions against us in connection with any security 
breaches or improper disclosure of data, which could cause 
us to incur significant expense and liability or result in orders 
or consent decrees forcing us to modify our business 
practices.” 
Taken together, Facebook’s risk factor statements warn 
about harm to its “reputation” and “business” that may come 
to light if the public or the government learns about improper 
access to its data. These statements do not represent that 
Facebook was free from significant breaches at the time of 
the filing. And if a reasonable investor thought so based on 
Facebook’s 10- K statements, that “reasonable” investor 
wasn’t acting so reasonably. Indeed, within the same 
section, Facebook warned that “computer malware, viruses, 
social engineering (predominantly spear phishing attacks), 
and general hacking have become more prevalent in our 
industry, have occurred on our systems in the past, and will 
occur on our systems in the future.” Facebook expressly 
advised that it experienced previous attempts to swipe its 
data and that it would continue to face such threats. Beyond 
Facebook’s own statements, much about the Cambridge 
Analytica scandal was already public. In a December 2015 
article, The Guardian reported that Cambridge Analytica 
46 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
had harvested data from “tens of millions” of Facebook users 
“without their permission.” 1 These are the same facts 
Shareholders use to claim Facebook deceived the public with 
more than two years later. 
So, on their face, none of the 10-K risk factor statements 
are false or misleading. The statements advise that improper 
access to data could harm Facebook’s reputation and 
business. And Shareholders have not sufficiently alleged 
that Facebook knew its reputation and business were already 
harmed at the time of the filing of the 10 -K. Nor do they 
allege that Facebook was aware of government ent ities or 
users launching regulatory or legal actions based on the 
Cambridge Analytica scandal in February 2017. 
While acknowledging these shortcomings in the 
Shareholders’ complaint, the majority takes the surprisingly 
broad view that it’s irrelevant tha t “Facebook did not know 
whether its reputation was . . . harmed” at the time of the 10-
K filing. Maj. Op. 25. The majority instead asserts that it’s 
enough that a breach had occurred, never mind whether the 
breach led to a discernible effect on Facebook ’s reputation 
or business at the time. Id . The majority goes so far as to 
say that a fraud occurs even if the harm caused by the breach 
was completely “unknown” to Facebook. Id. But if it was 
“unknown” whether the breach led to reputational or 
business harm, it’s hard to see how the risk factor statements 
were untrue. Stating that harm could result from a breach is 
not falsified by some “unknown” possibility of harm from a 
breach. In other words, Facebook’s risk factor statements 

1 See Harry Davies, Ted Cruz Using Firm that Harvested Data on 
Millions of Unwitting Facebook Users , The Guardian (Dec. 11, 2015), 
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/dec/11/senator-ted-cruz-
president-campaign-facebook-user-data. 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 47 
could not “dir ectly contradict what the defendant knew at 
that time” if any harm was unknown to Facebook at the time. 
Khoja, 899 F.3d at 1008.2 
And In re Alphabet, Inc. Securities Litigation, 1 F.4th 
687 (9th Cir. 2021), doesn’t transform every risk statement 
into a false or misleading statement if a risk later comes to 
fruition. Nor does it create a new requirement that a 
company disclose every bad thing that ever happened to it. 
In that case, Alphabet stated in two quarterly disclosure 
forms that certain risks “could adversely affect our business, 
financial condition, [and] results of operations,” but that 
“[t]here have been no material changes to our risk factors 
since our [last] Annual Report on Form 10- K.” 1 F.4th at 
696 (simplified). What Alphabet didn’t discl ose is that, 
before the reports came out, its internal Google investigators 
had discovered a software glitch in one of its programs that 
allowed third parties to collect users’ private data. Id. at 695. 
Google’s legal and policy staff quickly recognized the 
problem and warned in an internal memorandum that these 
security issues would likely trigger an immediate regulatory 
response and cause its senior executives to testify before 
Congress. Id . at 696. When news inevitably broke six 

2 Given the majority’s ana lysis of these statements, it’s difficult to see 
how Shareholders can ever satisfy the scienter requirement. Indeed, “[a] 
complaint will survive . . . only if a reasonable person would deem the 
inference of scienter cogent and at least as compelling as an y opposing 
inference one could draw from the facts alleged.” Tellabs, Inc. v. Makor 
Issues & Rights, Ltd., 551 U.S. 308, 324 (2007). Such a strong inference 
requires an “intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud,” or “deliberate 
recklessness”—which is “an extreme departure from the standards of 
ordinary care.” Schueneman v. Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. , 840 F.3d 
698, 705 (9th Cir. 2016). If the harm from Cambridge Analytica’s 
breach was unknown at the time of the filing of the 10- K, it’s doubtful 
this standard can be met. 
48 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
months later, Alphabet’s shares plummeted in value and, 
sure enough, there were calls for government investigation. 
Id. at 697. We concluded that “[r]isk disclosures that speak 
entirely of as-yet-unrealized risks and contingencies and do 
not alert the reader that some of these risks may already have 
come to fruition can mislead reasonable investors.” Id . at 
703 (simplified). In Al phabet’s case, the “warning in each 
[quarterly report] of risks that ‘could’ or ‘may’ occur [was] 
misleading to a reasonable investor [because] Alphabet 
knew that those risks had materialized.” Id. at 704. 
Contrary to the majority’s assertion, this case i s nothing 
like Alphabet. In Alphabet , the company knew a risk had 
come to fruition —set out as clear as day in an internal 
company memo—that a data bug would cause it greater 
regulatory scrutiny. Id. at 696. Rather than disclose its 
assessment, Alphabet chose to bury it and even stated that 
no material changes existed in its risk factors. Id. at 696–97, 
703. Here, Facebook might have known of breaches of its 
data—even potentially serious breaches —when it gave its 
risk statements, but Shareholders don’t allege that Facebook 
knew that those breaches would lead to immediate harm to 
its business or reputation. As the majority concedes, the 
harm from Cambridge Analytica’s breach of Facebook’s 
policies was “unknown” at the time of the 10- K filing. See 
Maj. O p. 25. Nor did Facebook lull investors into 
complacency by suggesting that nothing had changed on its 
risks front. These facts make all the difference here. Cf . 
Weston, 29 F.4th at 621 (dismissing fraud claims alleging 
that Twitter’s risk warning statement—that its “product and 
services may contain undetected software errors, which 
could harm our business and operating results” —was 
misleading because the risk had materialized by then). 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 49 
Because Facebook did not present false or misleading 
risk statements, and Alphabet did not modify a common-
sense understanding of truthfulness and disclosure, we 
should have affirmed the dismissal of this claim. 
II. 
User Control Statements 
The next category of alleged falsehoods concerns 
Facebook’s representations that users control their data and 
information. During the relevant period for this lawsuit, 
Facebook and its executives made various statements 
emphasizing users’ control over the data they shared with 
Facebook, such as— 
• “You own all of the content and 
information you post on Facebook, and 
you can control how it is shared through 
your privacy and application settings .” 
Facebook’s Statement of Rights and 
Responsibilities web page, ~ January 30, 
2015 to May 25, 2018. 
• “[W]hen you share on Facebook you 
need to know . . . . No one is going to get 
your data that shouldn’t have it. That 
we’re not going to make money in ways 
that you would feel uncomfortable with 
off your data. And that you’re controlling 
who you share with . . . . Privacy for us is 
making sure that you feel secure, sharing 
on Facebook.” Sheryl Sandberg, Axios 
interview, October 12, 2017. 
50 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
• “Our apps have long been focused on 
giving people transparency and control . . 
. .” Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook Gather 
Conference, January 23, 2018. 
A. 
Shareholders have adequately shown that these 
statements were misleading based on the allegation that 
Facebook “whitelisted” third parties. According to the 
Shareholders, at the same time these statements were made, 
Facebook continued to allow certain “whitelisted” third 
parties, mostly app developers and device manufacturers, to 
continue to access data against a user’s wishes. Shareholders 
allege that Facebook overrode user privacy settings to allow 
these third parties access to the data of, not only the 
Facebook user, but that of the user’s friends as well. In fact, 
Facebook paid the Federal Trade Commission $5 billion to 
settle charges stemming from the “whitelisting” allegations. 
These facts are enough to plead that the statements were 
false—the only question i s whether the statements caused 
Shareholders any loss. See Grigsby v. BofI Holding, Inc., 
979 F.3d 1198, 1204 (9th Cir. 2020) (explaining that 
“investors must demonstrate that the defendant’s deceptive 
conduct caused their claimed economic loss”) (simplif ied). 
Facebook’s “whitelisting” program became public on June 
3, 2018, when the New York Times reported that Facebook 
shared users’ and their friends’ data with multiple 
“whitelisted” companies. When it comes to false statements, 
a plaintiff can usually show loss causation by pointing to an 
immediate stock drop after the falsity was uncovered. Id. at 
1205 (“A plaintiff can satisfy the loss -causation pleading 
burden by alleging that a corrective disclosure revealed the 
truth of a defendant’s misrepresentation and thereby caused 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 51 
the company’s stock price to drop and investors to lose 
money.”) (simplified). The wrinkle here is that Facebook’s 
stock didn’t drop immediately after the whitelisting became 
public. It wasn’t until several weeks later —July 26, 2018, 
the day after Facebook announced slower growth than 
expected—that Facebook’s stock dropped by almost 19%. 
Facebook contends that this temporal gap proves that its 
misleading user control statements didn’t cause 
Shareholders any loss. 
But sometimes it takes time for the full scope of a loss 
from a misrepresentation to materialize. As In re Gilead 
Sciences Securities Litigation, 536 F.3d 1049, 1058 (9th Cir. 
2008) recognized, a “limited temporal gap between the time 
a misrepresentation is publicly revealed and the subsequent 
decline in stock value does not render a plaintiff’s theory of 
loss causation per se implausible.” Indeed, in that case, three 
months had passed between the disclosure of Gilead’s 
alleged deceptive marketing practices and the stock drop 
after Gilead missed revenue targets. Id. at 1057–58. Despite 
this gap, we concluded the plaintiffs had plausibly alleged 
that the less -than-expected revenue was caused by lower 
end-user demand, which, in turn, was caused by disclosing 
the company’s deceptive marketing. Id . at 1058. Thus, an 
“immediate market reaction” is not necessary when the 
market might “fail[] to appre ciate [the] significance” of a 
disclosure right away. Id. at 1057–58. 
So, we shouldn’t be too quick to dismiss a claim based 
on a delay in the manifestation of loss. In my view, it’s 
plausible that the whitelisting revelation made on June 18 
caused user engagement and advertising revenue to 
diminish, which contributed to the lower earnings 
announced on July 25 and the immediate stock drop. 
Facebook counters that the European Union’s new privacy 
52 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 
regulations—not the whitelisting revelation —caused the 
lower July 25 earnings. That might be right. But, at the very 
least, Shareholders deserve some discovery to prove their 
theory of loss causation. 
B. 
But the analysis of the user control statement must be 
different when it comes to the Cambridge Analytica scandal. 
Shareholders allege— and the majority agrees —that new 
revelations about Cambridge Analytica from March 2018 
also proved Facebook’s user contr ol statements were false. 
As a reminder, in late 2015, Facebook discovered that 
Cambridge Analytica obtained personality score data 
harvested from Facebook data and demanded that 
Cambridge Analytica delete all such data. In response, 
Cambridge Analytica certified to Facebook that it would 
delete the data. On March 16, 2018, Facebook announced 
that it had received reports from the media that Cambridge 
Analytica did not destroy the data and that it was suspending 
Cambridge Analytica from the platform. News reports then 
confirmed that Cambridge Analytica continued to possess 
and use harvested data from Facebook. Within a week of 
these disclosures, Facebook’s shares dropped nearly 18%. 
Shareholders contend that these revelations prove the falsity 
of Facebook’s user control statements. 
These Cambridge Analytica disclosures did not make the 
user control statements materially false. To prevail, 
Shareholders must show that the Facebook user control 
statements “affirmatively create[d] an impression of a stat e 
of affairs that differ[ed] in a material way from the one that 
actually exist[ed.]” Brody, 280 F.3d at 1006. But 
Cambridge Analytica’s lies to Facebook and its continued 
violation of Facebook’s privacy policies do not mean that 
 AMALGAMATED BANK V. FACEBOOK, INC. 53 
Facebook’s privacy protections do not actually exist. Aside 
from the whitelisting issue described above, Facebook 
seemingly described its privacy policies accurately. 
Cambridge Analytica’s violation of those policies doesn’t 
falsify them. 
Imagine a bank. Say that the bank announces a range of 
security measures to protect its customers’ money. Then 
consider if a bank robber defeats those measures, breaks in, 
and ultimately steals a bag of cash. Would anyone say that 
the bank lied about its security measures? Clearly, no. Here, 
a supposed bad actor violating Facebook’s privacy controls 
to improperly access user data doesn’t make the company’s 
statements about its policies misleading. 
What makes our ruling all the more odd is that much of 
the Cambridge Analytica scandal was already public by the 
time of the user control statements. The first article about it 
dropped in 2015. So it’s hard to see how this new 
“revelation” added to the “total mix” of information 
available to Shareholders or “significantly altered” their 
decision-making. See Retail Wholesale & Dep’t Store 
Union Loc. 338 Ret. Fund, 845 F.3d at 1274. We thus should 
have limited Facebook’s liability for the user control 
statements to the “whitelisting” allegations. 
III. 
For these reasons, I respectfully dissent from Part II.A of 
the majority opinion, from Part II.C as it relates to 
Cambridge Analytica, and from Part III.