21-2726-cv 
Kirschner v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. 

In the 
United States Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit 

AUGUST TERM 2022 

No. 21-2726 

MARC S. KIRSCHNER, solely in his capacity as Trustee of The 
Millennium Lender Claim Trust 
Plaintiff-Appellant, 

v. 

JP MORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., JP MORGAN SECURITIES LLC, 
CITIBANK, N.A., BANK OF MONTREAL, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS CORP., 
SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY, INC., SUNTRUST BANK, CITIGROUP 
GLOBAL MARKETS, INC., 
Defendants-Appellees.* 

On Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the Southern District of New York 

ARGUED: MARCH 9, 2023 
DECIDED: AUGUST 24, 2023 

* The Clerk of Court is directed to amend the caption as set forth above. 

Before: CABRANES, BIANCO, and PÉREZ, Circuit Judges. 

Plaintiff-Appellant Marc S. Kirschner brought a series of claims 
in New York state court arising out of a syndicated loan transaction 
facilitated by the defendants -appellees, a group of financial 
institutions. Plaintiff’s appeal present s two issues. The first issue 
presented is whether the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York (Paul G. Gardephe, Judge ) had subject matter 
jurisdiction over this action pursuant to the Edge Act, 12 U.S.C. § 632. 
The second issue presented is whether the District Court erroneously 
dismissed plaintiff’s state-law securities claims on the ground that he 
failed to plausibly suggest that notes issued as part of the syndicated 
loan transaction are securities under Reves v. Ernst & Young , 494 U.S. 
56 (1990). 
We hold that the District Court had jurisdiction under the Edge 
Act because defendant-appellee JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. engaged 
in international or foreign banking as part of the transaction giving rise 
to this suit. We also hold that the District Court did not erroneously 
dismiss plaintiff’s state-law securities claims because plaintiff failed to 
plausibly suggest that the notes are securities under Reves. 
We accordingly AFFIRM the District Court’s September 24, 
2018 order determining that it had jurisdiction pursuant to the Edge 

Act and AFFIRM its May 22, 2020 order dismissing plaintiff’s state -
law securities claims. 

 CHRISTOPHER P. JOHNSON (Kyle A. 
Lonergan, Joshua J. Newcomer, and Grant 
L. Johnson, on the brief), McKool Smith P.C., 
New York, NY, for Plaintiff-Appellant. 
JEFFREY B. WALL (Christopher M. Viapiano, 
Zoe A. Jacoby, Ann-Elizabeth Ostrager, and 
Mark A. Popovsky, on the brief), Sullivan & 
Cromwell LLP, Washington, D.C. & New 
York, NY, for Defendants-Appellees JP Morgan 
Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities 
LLC. 
Benjamin S. Kaminetzky, Lara Samet 
Buchwald, and Tina Hwa Joe, on the brief, 
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, New York, 
NY, for Defendants-Appellees Citibank N.A. 
and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 
J. Emmett Murphy and John C. Toro, on the 
brief, King & Spalding LLP, New York, NY, 
for Defendants-Appellees SunTrust Robinson 
Humphrey, Inc. and SunTrust Bank. 

Steve M. Dollar and Sean M. Topping, on the 
brief, Norton Rose Fulbright US LLP, New 
York, NY, for Defendants-Appellees BMO 
Capital Markets Corp. and Bank of Montreal. 

JOSÉ A. CABRANES, Circuit Judge: 
Plaintiff-Appellant Marc S. Kirschner brought a series of claims 
in New York state court arising out of a syndicated loan transaction 
(the “Transaction”)
1 facilitated by the defendants -appellees, a group 
of financial institutions. Plaintiff’s appeal presents two issues. The 
first issue presented is whether the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York (Paul G. Gardephe, Judge ) had 
jurisdiction over this action pursuant to the Edge Act, 12 U.S.C. § 632. 
The second issue presented is whether the District Court erroneously 
dismissed plaintiff’s state-law securities claims on the ground that he 
failed to plausibly suggest that notes issued as part of the Transaction 

1 “A syndicated loan is a loan extended by a group of financial institutions 
(a loan syndicate) to a single borrower. ” Syndicated Loan Portfolios of Financial 
Institutions, Bd. of Governors of the Fed. Rsrv. Sys., 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/efa/efa-project-syndicated-loan-
portfolios-of-financial-institutions.htm (last visited July 30, 2023); see also Fed. 
Deposit Ins. Corp., Risk Management Manual of Examination Policies, Loans § 3.2-
73 (May 2023) (“ FDIC Manual”) (“A syndicated loan involves two or more banks 
contracting with a borrower, typically a large or middle market corporation, to 
provide funds at specified terms under the same credit facility.”). 

(the “Notes”) are securities under Reves v. Ernst & Young, 494 U.S. 56 
(1990). 
We hold that the District Court had jurisdiction under the Edge 
Act because defendant-appellee JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. engaged 
in international or foreign banking as part of the Transaction. We also 
hold that the District Court did not erroneously dismiss plaintiff’s 
state-law securities claims because plaintiff failed to plausibly suggest 
that the Notes are securities under Reves. 
We accordingly AFFIRM the District Court’s September 24, 
2018 order determining that it had jurisdiction pursuant to the Edge 
Act and AFFIRM its May 22, 2020 order dismissing plaintiff’s state -
law securities claims.2 
I. BACKGROUND 
We describe the facts as set forth in the complaint and the 
documents incorporated therein.3 We recount only those necessary to 
explain our decision. 

2 We address the remaining issues raised on appeal by a summary order 
entered this same day. 
3 See Nicosia v. Amazon.com, Inc. , 834 F.3d 220, 230 (2d Cir. 2016) (“A 
complaint is deemed to include any written instrument attached to it as an exhibit 
or any statement or documents incorporated in it by reference.” (internal quotation 
marks and citation omitted)). 

A. Millennium 
Millennium Health LLC , Inc. f/k/a Millennium Laboratories 
(“Millennium”) was a California-based urine drug testing company. 
In March 2012, defendants-appellees JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JP 
Morgan Chase”), JP Morgan Securities, LLC (“JP Morgan Securities,” 
and together with JP Morgan Chase, “JP Morgan ”), SunTrust 
Robinson Humph rey, Inc., SunTrust Bank, and Bank of Montreal, 4 
executed a credit agreement (the “2012 Credit Agreement”) providing 
Millennium a $310 million term loan and a $20 million revolving loan. 
Two days before the 2012 Credit Agreement closed, the United States 
Department of Justice (“DOJ”) issued a subpoena to Millennium in 
connection with an investigation into whether Millennium had 
violated federal health care laws. At the time, Millennium was also 
embroiled in litigation with a competitor, Ameritox Lt d. Ameritox 
alleged that Millennium had violated federal anti-kickback statutes 
and that such violations “constituted ‘unfair competition.’”5 
As the DOJ investigation and Ameritox litigation continued , JP 
Morgan began to consider ways to refinance the 2012 Credit 
Agreement. Plaintiff alleges that “ by the end of February 2014,” the 
“only” way to refinance was “a huge institutional financing that 

4 We refer to these entities jointly, along with d efendants-appellees BMO 
Capital Markets Corp., Citibank, N.A., and Citigroup Global Markets In c., as 
“defendants.” 
5 Joint App’x (“J.A.”) 29. 

would” eliminate the roughly $300 million that Millennium still owed 
under the 2012 Credit Agreement.6 
B. The March 16, 2014 Commitment Letter 
The “huge institutional financing” principally consisted of a 
$1.775 billion term loan to Millennium (the “Term Loan”) . By letter 
dated March 16, 2014, JP Morgan, Citi,7 BMO Capital Markets, Bank of 
Montreal, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey , and SunTrust Bank (the 
“Initial Lenders”) agreed to provide Millennium the Term Loan8 and 
a $50 million revolving loan.9 Millennium, in turn, planned to use the 
Term Loan to (1) pay the outstanding amount due under the 2012 
Credit Agreement ($304 million), (2) pay a shareholder distribution 
($1.27 billion), (3) “redeem outstanding warrants, debentures and 

6 Id. at 32. 
7 The letter defines “Citi” to “mean Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Citibank, 
N.A., Citicorp USA, Inc., Citicorp North America, Inc. and/or any of their affiliates 
as Citi shall determine to be appropriate to provide the services contemplated 
herein.” Id. at 360. 
8 The Term Loan was initially for $1.765 billion and was later increased to 
$1.775 billion. 
9 The relevant loan documents refer to both the Term Loan and the 
revolving loan as “Senior Secured Facilities.” Plaintiff’s claims arise out of events 
surrounding the Term Loan. See J.A. 17 (“This Complaint relates to a $1.775 billion 
transaction . . . .”). The claims do not rest on allegations involving the revolving 
loan. For clarity , we refer only to the Term Loan , even when the relevant loan 
document refers to the “Senior Secured Facilities.” 

stock options” ($196 million) and (4) pay fees and expenses related to 
the Transaction ($45 million).10 
The Initial Lenders and Millennium further agreed that the 
Initial Lenders could “syndicate the [Term Loan] to a group of lenders 
identified by the ‘Lead Arrangers,’” JP Morgan Securities and 
Citigroup Global Markets .11 The Lead Arrangers agreed to 
“commence the syndication of the [Term Loan] . . . promptly,” while 
Millennium “agree[d] actively to assist the Le ad Arrangers in 
completing a syndication satisfactory to [it] and the Lead Arrangers.”12 
C. The Confidential Information Memorandum 
To facilitate the syndication effort, JP Morgan and Citi prepared 
a “Confidential Information Memorandum” about Millennium. 

10 Id. at 582. 
11 Id. at 361, 376. The commitment letter further established that JP Morgan 
Chase would act as the “Administrative Agent,” and “in such capacity” be entitled 
“to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to” it 
pursuant to loan documents. Id. at 361, 376, 537–38. 
12 Id. at 361. In the finance community, a “[l]oan syndication” refers to “[t]he 
process of involving multiple lenders in providing various portions of a loan.” Off. 
of the Comptroller of Currency, Leveraged Lending: Comptroller’s Handbook 63 (2008) 
(“Comptroller’s Handbook” ); see also supra, note 1 (providing definitions for 
“syndicated loan”). 

The Confidential Information Memorandum most consistently 
refers to its intended audience as potential “lenders,” 13 although its 
cover page uses the term “Public Side Investors.”14 The other relevant 
documents also most consistently employ the term “lender” and not 
“investor.”15 Accordingly, we too refer to those who purchased Notes 
as “lenders.”16 
The Confidential Information Memorandum contains 
numerous disclaimers. For exampl e, it warns potential lenders that 
the material did “not purport to be all -inclusive” and was “prepared 
to assist potential lenders in making their own evaluation of 
[Millennium] and the [Term Loan].”
17 It also advises that each 
potential lender “ should perform its own independent investigation 
and analysis of the [Term Loan] or the transactions contemplated 

13 See, e.g., id. at 565 (“The information and documents following this Notice 
. . . have been prepared from information supplied by or on behalf of Millennium 
. . . and is being furnished by [JP Morgan Securities] . . . to you as a potential lender 
. . . .”). 
14 Id. at 561; see also id. at 572 (providing a “Public investors dial-in” number). 
Similarly, a PowerPoint presentation created by Millennium with help from the 
Lead Arrangers “recast some of the information” in the Confidential Information 
Memorandum and was called an “Investor Presentation.” Id. at 40. 
15 See, e.g. , id. at 446 (preamble to 2014 credit agreement listing parties 
thereto, including the “Lenders”). 
16 This nomenclature is not dispositive of whether the Notes are “securities” 
under Reves v. Ernst & Young, 494 U.S. 56 (1990). 
17 J.A. 566. 

thereby and the creditworthiness of [Millennium].” 18 And by 
receiving the Confidential Information Memorandum, each potential 
lender “represent[ed] that it [was] sophisticated and experienced in 
extending credit to entities similar to [Millennium].”19 
If a potential lender wanted to become an actual lender, then it 
had “to make a final legally binding offer to purchase” the Notes no 
later than 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on April 14, 2014.20 
D. The Lenders 
On April 15, 2014, JP Morgan Securities notified potential 
lenders with outstanding legally binding offers of the amount of their 
allocation. At that point, those potential lenders became actual lenders 
because they were “irrevocabl[y]” bound to purchase their allocation 
of the Term Loan. 21 Those lenders—referred to here as “Parent 
Lenders”—could then sub-allocate their allocation to investors in their 
respective funds—referred to here as “Child Lenders.” For example, 
Brigade Capital Management, LP (“Brigade”) , a Parent Lender , was 

18 Id. 
19 Id. Potential lenders made this representation “[b]y accepting the 
Confidential Materials [in the Confidential Information Memorandum] for 
review.” Id. at 565. 
20 Id. at 50. 
21 Id. at 428 (an “Institutional Allocation Confirmation” sent by a lender to 
JP Morgan Chase “confirm[ing] [JP Morgan Chase’s] offer to sell, and [the lender’s] 
agreement to purchase” the lender’s allocated amount of the Term Loan, “which 
offer and agreement is irrevocable”). 

allocated $45 million of the Term Loan and then sub-allocated that $45 
million allocation among twenty-three Child Lenders.22 
In total, s ixty-one Parent Lenders received an allocation of the 
Term Loan. Of those sixty -one Parent Lenders, fifty-nine were 
domestic entities and two were foreign entities. Approximately half 
of the roughly four hundred Child Lenders were foreign entities. 
E. The Transaction 
The Transaction “proceeded in three inter -related and 
contemporaneous steps” and closed on April 16, 2014.23 
First, by letter agreement dated April 16, 2014, JP Morgan 
Securities or its “Lending Affiliate,” JP Morgan Chase, agreed to “fund 
100%” of the Term Loan.24 
Second, by letter agreement dated April 16, 2014, Millennium 
consented to JP Morgan Chase assigning its rights and obligations 
with respect to the Term Loan to the lenders. 

22 See id. at 423 (email from JP Morgan Securities notifying Brigade of its 
allocation and providing information on “[l]oan documentation,” the allocation, 
and funding of sub-allocations). 
23 Id. at 50. 
24 Id. at 400. 

Third, “each individual [lender] . . . became irrevocably 
committed to [JP Morgan Chase] . . . to purchase” its allocated amount 
of the Term Loan.25 
F. The Credit Agreement 
In connection with the closing on April 16, 2014 , each lender 
executed an “Assignment and Assumption Agreement” with JP 
Morgan Chase. 26 The lenders thereby assumed “all of [JP Morgan 
Chase’s] rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender” 27 under a 
“Credit Agreement” dated April 16, 2014. The Credit Agreement 
established the conditions of the Term Loan. By entering the Credit 
Agreement, each lender represented that it had 
independently and without reliance upon any Agent or 
any other Lender, and based on such documents and 
information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own 
appraisal of and investigati on into the business, 
operations, property, financial and other condition and 

25 Id. at 50–51. 
26 See id. at 432–33 (Assignment and Assumption Agreement between JP 
Morgan Chase and Brigade Credit Fund II, LTD (“Brigade Credit”) , a lender 
organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands). 
27 Id. at 432; see id. at 446 (defining “Lender[]” as “the several banks and other 
financial institutions or entities from time to time parties to this [Credit] 
Agreement”). 

creditworthiness of [Millennium] 28 and made its own 
decision to make its Loans29 hereunder and enter into this 
[Credit] Agreement.30 
The Credit Agreement established that Millennium would pay 
back the Term Loan over seven years. Millennium was generally 
obligated to make quarterly payments consisting of a portion of the 
$1.775 billion principal plus interest. Additionally, t o protect lenders 
were Millennium to default on its payment obligations , the Credit 
Agreement “create[d] in favor of the Administrative Agent [JP Morgan 
Chase], for the benefit of the Lenders, a legal, valid and enforceable 
security interest” in Millennium’s collateral.31 

28 The Credit Agreement required that each lender make its own appraisal 
of, and investigation into, not only Millennium, but also Millennium’s “Restricted 
Subsidiaries” as well as Millennium Lab Holdings II, LLC and its “Restricted 
Subsidiaries.” See id. at 539 (Credit Agreement provision referencing “Loan 
Parties”); id. at 468 (defining “Loan Parties” as “each Group Member that is a party 
to a Loan Document”); id. at 464 (defining “Group Members” as “the collective 
reference to Holdings, the Borrower and their respective Restricted Subsidiaries”); 
id. at 446 (defining Millennium Lab Holdings II, LLC, a s “Holdings” and 
Millennium as the “Borrower”); id. at 474 (defining “Restricted Subsidiary”). 
29 The Credit Agreement defines “Loan” as “any loan made by any Lender 
pursuant to th[e] [Credit] Agreement.” Id. at 468. Here, each lender made a Loan 
to Millennium consisting of their allocated amount of the Term Loan. 
30 Id. at 539. 
31 Id. at 508; see id. at 382 (noting that Millennium ’s obligations under the 
Credit Agreement were “secured by a perfected first priority security interest in all 
of its tangible and intangible assets,” subject to certain limitations). Additionally, 
if Millennium failed to timely pay back the lenders, Millennium had to pay a higher 

The Credit Agreement also facilitated the creation of a 
secondary market for the Notes, subject to certain assignment 
restrictions. The restrictions include: 
• A prohibition on assignment to “a natural person” 32; 
• A requirement that Millennium and JP Morgan Chase, acting 
in its capacity as Administrative Agent , provide written 
consent to any assignment (subject to certain exceptions ) 33; 
and 
• A requirement that any assignment be for more than 
$1,000,000, unless, among other things, the assignment was 
to a “Lender, an affiliate of a Lender, or an Approved Fund 
or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the 
assigning Lender’s” allocation.34 

interest rate on the Term Loan , with such interest “payable from time to time on 
demand.” Id. at 488. 
32 Id. at 546. 
33 See id. at 546–47. 
34 Id. at 547. The Credit Agreement defines “Approved Fund” as “any 
Person (other than a natural person or a Disqualified Lender) that is engaged in 
making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of 
credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed 
by (a) a Lender, (b) an affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an affiliate of an entity 
that administers or manages a Lender.” Id. It defines “Person” as “an individual, 
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, business trust, joint stock 
company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, Governmental 
Authority or other entity of whatever nature.” Id. at 472. The “Disqualified 
Lender[s]” are specific entities listed on a schedule attached to the Credit 
Agreement. Id. at 456. 

The Notes began trading o n a secondary market “as early as 
April 15th.”35 
G. Millennium Files for Bankruptcy 
As the Transaction proceeded, the DOJ investigation and 
Ameritox litigation also continued. After the Transaction’s April 16, 
2014 closing, both took a material turn. 
On June 16, 2014 , a jury in the United States District Court for 
the Middle District of Florida determined that Millennium had 
violated federal anti-kickback statutes and awarded Ameritox $2.755 
million in compensatory damages and $12 million in punitive 
damages.36 The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh 
Circuit later vacated the verdict.37 
In December 2014, the DOJ informed Millennium that it would 
intervene in qui tam litigation involving Millennium’s billing practices. 
It did so on March 19, 2015. On May 22, 2015, Millennium announced 
that it had reached a preliminary $256 million global settlement with 
the government related to the qui tam litigation. On October 16, 2015, 

35 Id. at 51. The complaint alleges that “ JP Morgan assigned a ‘High Yield 
Research’ Analyst” to monitor the secondary trading market and “to help 
disseminate non -confidential information about [Millennium]” to potential 
secondary-market purchasers of the Notes. Id. at 55. 
36 The United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida later 
lowered the punitive damages to $8.5 million. See J.A. 56. 
37 See Ameritox, Ltd. v. Millennium Lab’ys, Inc., 803 F.3d 518, 541 (11th Cir. 
2015). 

Millennium completed the $256 million settlement. Soon thereafter, 
on November 10, 2015, Millennium filed a voluntary petition for relief 
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States 
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. 
H. This Litigation 
As part of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, plaintiff was 
appointed trustee of the Millennium Lender Claim Trust (the “Trust”). 
The ultimate beneficiaries of the Trust are lenders who purchased 
Notes and have claims in the bankruptcy proceedings. 
On August 1, 2017, plaintiff filed suit in the Supreme Court of 
the State of New York, New York County. He brought claims for 
violations of state securities laws, negligent misrepresentation, breach 
of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, and breach of the implied 
contractual duty of good faith and fair dealing. 
On August 21, 2017, defendants filed a notice of removal to the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York 
pursuant to the Edge Act, 12 U.S.C. § 632. Plaintiff filed a motion to 
remand the cause to New York state court. On September 24, 2018, the 
District Court denied plaintiff’s motion to remand after concluding 
that it had jurisdiction under the Edge Act. 
On June 28, 2019, defendants moved to dismiss plaintiff’s 
complaint. On May 22, 2020, the District Court granted defendants’ 
motion to dismiss. It dismissed the state-law securities claims because 
it concluded that plaintiff failed to plead facts plausibly suggesting 

that the Notes are “securities” under Reves v. Ernst & Young , 494 U.S. 
56 (1990). 
On July 31, 2020, plaintiff moved for leave to file a proposed 
amended complaint. On December 1, 2020, Magistrate Judge Sarah L. 
Cave issued a “Report and Recommendation” that recommended 
denying plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint as futile. 
On September 30, 2021, the District Court adopted the Report 
and Recommendation and denied plaintiff’s motion to amend the 
complaint as futile. Plaintiff timely appealed on October 28, 2021. 
II. DISCUSSION 
We consider at the threshold whether the District Court had 
subject matter jurisdiction over this action pursuant to the Edge Act, 
12 U.S.C. § 632. We hold that it did. We then turn to whether plaintiff 
plausibly suggested that the Notes are “securities” under Reves v. Ernst 
& Young, 494 U.S. 56 (1990). We hold that he did not. 
A. Edge Act Jurisdiction 
Plaintiff challenges the District Court’s determination that it had 
jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to the Edge Act, 12 U.S.C. § 632. 
We “review questions of subject matter jurisdiction de novo.”38 
Congress enacted the Edge Act in 1919 “to provide for the 
establishment of international banking and financial corporations 

38 Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., 621 F.3d 111, 124 (2d Cir. 2010). 

operating under Federal supervision with powers sufficiently broad to 
enable them to compete effectively with similar foreign- owned 
institutions in the United States and abroad .”39 Consistent with that 
purpose, the Edge Act “authorized the creation of banking 
corporations chartered by the Federal Reserve Bank, so -called ‘Edge 
Act banks’ or ‘Edge Act corporations,’ which could engage in offshore 
banking operations freed from regulatory barriers imposed by state 
banking commissioners.”
Congress amended the statute in 1933 to “ provid[e] for federal 
court jurisdiction of certain suits to which . . . Edge Act banks [or 
corporations] were parties.”41 For a federal court to have jurisdiction 

39 12 U.S.C. § 611a. 
40 Am. Int’l Grp., Inc. v. Bank of Am. Corp., 712 F.3d 775, 779 (2d Cir. 2013); see 
12 U.S.C. § 611 (authorizing the formation of “[c]orporations to be organized for the 
purpose of engaging in international or foreign banking or other international or 
foreign financial operations, or in banking or other financial operations in a 
dependency or insular possession of the United states, either directly or through 
the agency, ownership or control of local institutions in foreign countries, or in such 
dependencies or insular possessions as provided by this subchapter and to act 
when required by the Secretary of the Treasury as fiscal agents of the United 
States”). 
41 Am. Int’l Grp., 712 F.3d at 779. Section 632 was added as part of the 
Banking Act of 1933, also known as the Glass-Steagall Act. See Banking Act of 1933, 
Pub. L. 73-66, § 15, 48 Stat. 162, 184. As relevant, § 632 provides that 
all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity to which any 
corporation organized under the laws of the United States shall be a 
party, arising out of transactions involving internati onal or foreign 
banking, or banking in a dependency or insular possession of the 
United States, or out of other international or foreign financial 

under the Edge Act, (1) the suit must be “of a civil nature at common 
law or in equity,” (2) at least one party to the suit must be an Edge Act 
bank or corporation, and (3) the suit must “aris[e] out of transactions 
involving” (a) “international or foreign banking ,” (b) “ banking in a 
dependency or insular possession of the United States,” or (c) “out of 
other international or foreign financial operations .”42 We have 
clarified that to satisfy the third element, the party Edge Act bank or 
corporation must itself engage in the relevant “international or foreign 
banking,” “banking in a dependency or insular possession of the 
United States,” or “international or foreign financial operations.”43 
The parties agree that the first two elements are satisfied: They 
agree that the suit is civil in nature and that a party to this suit —JP 
Morgan Chase —is an Edge Act bank. 44 The parties disagree on 
whether the third element is satisfied. Specifically, they dispute 

operations, either directly or through the agency, ownership, or 
control of branches or local institutions in dependencies or insular 
possessions of the United States or in foreign countries, shall be 
deemed to arise under the laws of the United States, and the district 
courts of the United States shall have original jurisdiction of all such 
suits. 
42 12 U.S.C. § 632. 
43 Am. Int’l Grp., 712 F.3d at 784 (“[Section] 632 provides that in order for its 
grant of federal jurisdiction and removability to apply, the suit must have a 
federally chartered corporation [i.e., an Edge Act bank or corporation] as a party, 
and the suit must arise out of an offshore banking or fina ncial transaction of that 
federally chartered corporation.”). 
44 Citibank is also an Edge Act bank, but d efendants “rely on [JP Morgan 
Chase’s] transactions to establish Edge Act jurisdiction.” Defs. Br. at 23 n.3. 

whether JP Morgan Chase itself engaged in the relevant international 
or foreign banking. 
We conclude that the third element is satisfied because JP 
Morgan Cha se itself engaged in international or foreign banking as 
part of the Transaction. To effectuate t he Transaction, JP Morgan 
Chase assigned its interest in the Term Loan to lenders. 45 That 
assignment constituted banking.46 And JP Morgan Chase’s assignment 
of its interest in the Term Loan “involv[ed] international or foreign 
banking”47 because JP Morgan Chase directly assigned a portion of its 
interest in the Term Loan to foreign lenders.48 

45 See, e.g., J.A. 432–35 (Assignment and Assumption Agreement between JP 
Morgan Chase and Brigade Credit). 
46 See 12 U.S.C. § 24 (authorizing banks “[t]o exercise . . . all such incidental 
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking ; by discounting 
and negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences of 
debt . . . and by obtaining, issuing, and circulating notes”); see also Off . of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, Loan Participations, 1998 WL 161494, at *1 (Apr. 1998) 
(“The purchase and sale of loans and participations in loans are established banking 
practices.”). 
47 12 U.S.C. § 632 (emphasis added). 
48 See, e.g. , J.A. 432 (Assignment and Assumption Agreement between JP 
Morgan Chase and Brigade Credit, a foreign entity); id. at 343 (Decl. of Lyndon M. 
Tretter stating that two of the Parent Lenders are foreign entities); id. at 344 (listing 
foreign Child Lenders that received a sub -allocation of the Term Loan from 
Brigade); see also Wilson v. Dantas, 746 F.3d 530, 535 (2d Cir. 2014) (holding that an 
Edge Act bank engaged in “international or foreign financial operations” where it 
“contributed $750 million in return for stock in the [Brazilian] portfolio 
companies”); Corporacion Venezolana de Fomento v. Vin tero Sales Corp., 629 F.2d 786, 
792–93 (2d Cir. 1980) (holding that an Edge Act bank engaged in “international or 

Plaintiff does not contest that JP Morgan Chase assigned 
portions of the Term Loan to foreign lenders. Rather, he argues that 
the mere “fortuitous involvement” of the foreign lenders “in an 
otherwise domestic transaction is alone insufficient to trigger the 
[international or foreign banking] element.” 49 The “involvement” of 
the foreign lenders, he explains, was “fortuitous” because JP Morgan 
Chase “was [not] involved in soliciting” the foreign lenders “into the 
[T]ransaction.”
50 Plaintiff thus concludes that Edge Act jurisdiction is 
wanting. 
We are unpersuaded by his argument. True, JP Morgan Chase 
did not solicit the foreign lenders into the Transaction. But that 
solicitation is not the relevant “international or foreign banking .”51 
Rather, t he relevant “international or foreign banking” 52 was JP 
Morgan Chase ’s direct assignment of portions of the Term Loan to 
foreign entities. JP Morgan Chase’s deliberate choice to directly assign 
its interests in the Term Loan was also not “fortuitous,” meaning 

foreign” banking when it provided a letter of credit for the benefit of a New York 
corporation on a Venezuelan corporation’s account). 
49 Pl. Br. at 21. 
50 Id. at 21, 23. 
51 12 U.S.C. § 632. 
52 Id. 

“accidental” or “[o]ccurring by chance.”53 Plaintiff does not allege, for 
example, that JP Morgan Chase accidentally assigned its interest in the 
Term Loan to foreign entities. 
In sum, an Edge Act bank’s direct assignment of a loan to a 
foreign entity qualifies as “international or foreign banking .”54 
Accordingly, because each of the elements required to establish Edge 
Act jurisdiction is satisfied, the District Court correctly concluded that 
it had jurisdiction over this matter. 
B. Whether The Notes Are “Securities” 
We now turn to the second issue presented: whether the District 
Court erroneously dismissed plaintiff’s state-law securities claims 
because he did not plausibly allege that the Notes are “securities” 
under Reves v. Ernst & Young, 494 U.S. 56 (1990). 
 We review a district court’ s decision to dismiss a claim under 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) de novo.55 “In assessing the 
complaint, we accept all factual allegations as true, and draw all 
reasonable inferences in the plaintiff’s favor.” 56 But “conclusory 

53 Fortuitous, Black’s Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019) ; see Bryan A. Garner, 
Garner’s Modern English Usage 409 (4th ed. 2016) (“[T]he word [fortuitous] is 
commonly misused for fortunate, in itself a very unfortunate thing.”). 
54 12 U.S.C. § 632. 
55 Kinsey v. N.Y. Times Co., 991 F.3d 171, 175 (2d Cir. 2021). 
56 Francis v. Kings Park Manor, Inc. , 992 F.3d 67, 72 (2d Cir. 2021) (en banc) 
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted). 

allegations are not entitled to the assumption of truth, and a complaint 
will not survive a motion to dismiss unless it contains sufficient factual 
matter, accepted as true, to state a claim that is plausible on its face.”
The parties agree that to determine whether the Notes are 
“securities,” we should apply the test enunciated by the Supreme 
Court in Reves.58 There, the Supreme Court explained that although 
the Act defines “security” to include “any note ,”59 the “phrase ‘any 

57 Id. at 72 (internal quotation marks, citation, and brackets omitted). 
Plaintiff asserts that because determining whether a note is a “security” is “fact-
intensive,” it is “not appropriately resolved on a motion to dismiss.” Pl. Br. at 30 
(quoting SEC v. Rorech, 673 F. Supp. 2d 217, 225 (S.D.N.Y. 2009)). That a claim is 
fact-intensive does not preclude dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6) if the plaintiff fails 
to allege facts plausibly supporting a claim upon which relief can be granted . Cf. 
Universal Health Servs., Inc. v. United States , 579 U.S. 176, 195 n.6 (2016) (“We reject 
[plaintiff’s] assertion that materiality is too fact intensive for courts to dismiss False 
Claims Act cases on a motion to dismiss or at summary judgment.”). 
58 The Reves test is used to determine whether notes are “securities” under 
both the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the “1934 Act”) and the Securities Act 
of 1933 (the “1933 Act”) . See 494 U.S. at 60 (determining whether a note is a 
“security” under the 1934 Act); Banco Espanol de Credito v. Sec. Pac. Nat’l Bank , 973 
F.2d 51, 55 –56 (2d Cir. 1992) (applying the Reves test to claims brought under the 
1933 Act). Plaintiff did not bring claims under either of those statutes. Instead, he 
brought claims under the state-securities laws of California, Massachusetts, 
Colorado, and Illinois. We, like the District Court, “accept[] [ p]laintiff’s assertion 
that Reves applies to [h is] claims under California, Colorado, Illinois, and 
Massachusetts law.” Special App ’x 40. We accordingly proceed to examine the 
Notes under Reves. 
59 15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(10). The 1934 Act defines “security” in full as: 
any note, stock, treasury stock, security future, security-based swap, 
bond, debenture, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-
sharing agreement or in any oil, gas, or other mineral royalty or 

note’ should not be interpreted to mean literally ‘any note.’” 60 It 
reasoned that Congress’s goal in enacting the Securities Act of 1933 
and the 1934 Act (together, the “Securities Acts”) was to regulate the 
investment market and not to provide a “broad federal remedy for all 
fraud.”61 Accordingly , only “ notes issued in an investment context” 
are “securities.” 62 By contrast, notes “issued in a commercial or 
consumer context” are not.63 

lease, any collateral -trust certificate, preorganization certificate or 
subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting -trust 
certificate, certificate of deposit for a security, any put, call, straddle, 
option, or privilege on any security, certificate of deposit, or group 
or index of securities (including any interest therein or based on the 
value thereof), or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered 
into on a national securities exchange relating to foreign currency, 
or in general, any instrument commonly known as a “security”; or 
any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim 
certificate for, receipt for, or warrant or right to subscribe to or 
purchase, any of the foregoing; but shall not include currency or any 
note, draft, bill of exchange, or banker's acceptance which has a 
maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding nine months, 
exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of 
which is likewise limited. 
Id. The 1934 Act’s “definition of security . . . is virtually identical” to the 1933 Act’s 
definition of “security.” Tcherepnin v. Knight, 389 U.S. 332, 342 (1967). 
60 Reves, 494 U.S. at 63. 
61 Id. at 61 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). 
62 Id. at 63. 
63 Id. 

Under Reves, courts must apply a “family resemblance” test to 
determine whether a “note” is a “security .” The test “begin[s] with a 
presumption that every note is a security.” 64 It then directs courts to 
examine four factors, each of which helps to uncover whether the note 
was issued in an investment context (a nd is thus a security) or in a 
consumer or commercial context (and is thus not a security). 65 The 
four factors are: 
1) “[T]he motivations that would prompt a reasonable seller 
and buyer to enter into” the transaction66; 
2) “[T]he plan of distribution of the instrument” 67; 
3) “[T]he reasonable expectations of the investing public” 68; 
and 
4) “[W]hether some factor such as the existence of another 
regulatory scheme significantly reduces the risk of the 
instrument, thereby rendering application of the Securities 
Acts unnecessary.”

64 Id. at 65. 
65 See id. at 68–69 (“We have consistently identified the fundamental essence 
of a ‘security’ to be its character as an ‘investment.’”). 
66 Id. at 66. 
67 Id. (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). 
68 Id. 
69 Id. at 67. 

In balancing the four factors, courts compare the note at issue to 
an existing “judicially crafted” list of instruments that are not 
securities.70 If “the note bears a strong resemblance” to one of the 
instruments on that list, then we conclude that the note is not a 
security.71 That a note does not bear a strong resemblance to an item 
on the list is not dispositive. The test allows courts to expand th e list 
of non -security instruments to include the type of note at issue if, 
based on the four factors , a court concludes that the note is not a 
security.72 
1. The Motivations of the Parties 
The first Reves factor requires us to “examine the transaction to 
assess the motivations that would prompt a reasonable seller and 

70 Id. at 64; see id. at 67. At the time Reves was decided, that list included “the 
note delivered in consumer financing, the note secured by a mortgage on a home, 
the short-term note secured by a lien on a small business or some of its assets, the 
note evidencing a ‘character’ loan to a bank customer, short-term notes secured by 
an assignment of accounts receivable, . . . a note which simply formalizes an open-
account debt incurred in the ordinary course of business (particularly if, as in the 
case of the customer of a broker, it is c ollateralized)[,] . . . [and] notes evidencing 
loans by commercial banks for current operations.” Id. at 65 (internal quotation 
marks and citation omitted); see also Banco Espanol, 973 F.2d at 56 (identifying “loans 
issued by banks for commercial purposes” as one of “the enumerated categor[ies]” 
of instruments that are not securities). 
71 Id. at 67. 
72 See id. (“If an instrument is not sufficiently similar to an item on the list, 
the decision whether another category should be added is to be made by examining 
the same factors.”). 

buyer to enter into it.”73 We must determine “whether the motivations 
[of the seller and buyer] are investment (suggesting a security) or 
commercial or consumer (suggesting a non- security).”74 A buyer’s 
motivation is investment if it expects to profit from its investment, 
including through earning either variable or fixed -rate interest.75 A 
seller’s motivation is investment if its “purpose is to raise money for 
the general use of a business enterprise or to finance substantial 
investments.”
76 A seller’s motivation is commercial if, for example, 
“the note is exchanged to facilitate the purchase and sale of a minor 

73 Id. at 66. 
74 Pollack v. Laidlaw Holdings, Inc., 27 F.3d 808, 812 (2d Cir. 1994). 
75 See Reves, 494 U.S. at 68 n.4 (“We emphasize that by ‘profit’ in the context 
of notes, we mean ‘a valuable return on an investment,’ which undoubtedly 
includes interest.”); Pollack, 27 F.3d at 813 ( observing that it was “not . . . a close 
question” that the buyers of bonds had an investment motivation where they 
would earn “a fixed rate of return in the form of interest” on the bonds). 
Defendants assert that “[a]lthough the fixed rate of return on the loan does 
not by itself preclude the existence of a security, it is highly relevant that the 
lenders’ return was not tied to Millennium’s market performance.” Def s. Br. at 40 
(citation omitted ). To the contrary, that a lender’s return is not tied to market 
performance is not highly relevant to whether a “note” is a “security” under Reves. 
The Supreme Court in Reves explicitly rejected a definition of “profit” that would 
“suggest that notes pay ing a rate of interest not keyed to the earning of the 
enterprise are not ‘notes’ within the meaning of the Securities Acts.” Reves, 494 U.S. 
at 68 n.4. Instead, the Supreme Court “emphasize[d]” that, in “the context of 
notes,” profit means “a valuable return on an investment.” Id. A fixed rate of return 
is undoubtedly “a valuable return on an investment.” Id. 
76 Reves, 494 U.S. at 66; id. at 67–68 (concluding that a seller’s motivation was 
investment where it “sold the notes in an effort to raise capital for its general 
business operations”). 

asset or consumer good, to correct for the seller’s cash-flow difficulties, 
or to advance some other commercial or consumer purpose.”77 
On the one hand, the pleaded facts plausibly suggest that the 
lenders’ motivation was investment because the lenders expected to 
profit from their purchase of the Notes. Under the Credit Agreement, 
the lenders were entitled to receive quarterly interest payments over 
the course of seven years. They therefore expected to receive a 
“valuable return”78 on their purchase of the Notes. 
On the other hand, the pleaded facts do not plausibly suggest 
that Millennium’s motivation was investment. Millenniu m was not 
using the Term Loan to raise funds for its urine testing business or to 
finance other investments. Instead, it planned to use the Term Loan to 
pay the outstanding amount due under the 2012 Credit Agreement, 
make a shareholder distribution, “ redeem outstanding warrants, 
debentures and stock options, ” and pay fees and expenses related to 
the Transaction.79 Th ese uses suggest that Millennium’s motivation 
was commercial. 
Accordingly, the pleaded facts indicate that the parties’ 
motivations were mixed .80 At this early stage of litigation, our 

77 Id. at 66. 
78 Id. at 68 n.4. 
79 J.A. 582. 
80 Plaintiff does not argue that Millennium’s motivation was investment. He 
argues only that Millennium’s motivation was not commercial because there was 

application of the first Reves factor tilts in favor of concluding that the 
complaint plausibly alleges that the Notes are securities. 
2. The Plan of Distribution 
The second Reves factor requires us to “examine the plan of 
distribution of the instrument to determine whether it is an instrument 
in which there is common trading for speculation or investment.” 81 
This factor weighs in favor of determining that a note is a security if it 
is “offered and sold to a broad segment of the public.” 82 This factor 
weighs against determining that a note is a security if there a re 
limitations in place that “work[] to prevent the [notes] from being sold 
to the general public.”83 
The pleaded facts do not plausibly suggest that the Notes were 
“offered and sold to a broad segment of the public.” 84 The Lead 
Arrangers offered the Notes only to sophisticated institutional entities, 
providing them with a Confidential Information Memorandum. JP 
Morgan then proceeded to allocate the Notes to only the sophisticated 

“no commercial purpose in assuming [the] additional $1.4 billion of debt.” Pl. Br. 
at 34. The upshot of plaintiff’s argument is that Millennium’s motivations were 
neither investment nor commercial. The Reves test, however, requires us to 
categorize Millennium’s motivation as either investment or commercial. 
81 Reves, 494 U.S. at 66 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted). 
82 Id. at 68. 
83 Banco Espanol, 973 F.2d at 55. 
84 Reves, 494 U.S. at 68. 

institutional entities that submitted “legally binding offe r[s].”85 This 
allocation process was not a “broad -based, unrestricted sale[] to the 
general investing public.”86 
Plaintiff points to the presence of a secondary market as 
evidence that the Notes were “offered and sold to a broad segment of 
the public.”87 But the restrictions on any assignment of the Notes 
rendered them unavailable to the general public. The Notes could not 
be assigned to a “natural person.” 88 Nor could they be assigned 
without prior written consent from both Millennium and JP Morgan 
Chase, acting in its capacity as Administrative Agent, unless an 
assignment was being made to a “Lender, an affiliate of a Lender or an 
approved fund.” 89 Nor could any assignment total more than 
$1,000,000, unless it was to a “Lender, an affiliate of a Lender, or an 
Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of 
the assigning Lenders[’]” allocation.

85 J.A. 50. 
86 Pollack, 27 F.3d at 814. 
87 Reves, 494 U.S. at 68. 
88 J.A. 546. 
89 Id. at 546–47. 
90 Id. at 547. Plaintiff challenges the stringency of these restrictions by noting 
that Millennium “shall be deemed to have consented” to a requested assignment if 
it does not object “within five Business Days after having received telecopy or 
electronic written notice thereof.” Id. at 546; see Reply Br. at 20–21. The fact remains, 
however, that Millennium’s consent was required in one form or another. 

The assignment restrictions here are akin91 to those in Banco 
Espanol de Credito v. Security Pacific National Bank that we held weighed 
against concluding that the relevant loan participations were 
securities.92 In Banco Espanol, “[t]he plan of distribution specifically 
prohibited resales of the loan participations without the express 
written permission of [the issuer][,] . . . . [which] worked to prevent the 
loan participations from being sold to the general public, thus limiting 
eligible buyers to those with the capacity to acquire information about 
the debtor.”93 The collective impact of the assignment restrictions here 
likewise works to prevent the Notes from being sold to the general 
public.94 

91 Moreover, the plan of distribution for the Notes is unlike those found to 
render notes broadly available. See, e.g. , Reves, 4 94 U.S. at 68 (deciding that the 
second factor weighed in favor of the conclusion that the notes were securities 
because the issuer, an agricultural cooperative, “offered the notes over an extended 
period to it s 23,000 members, as well as to nonmembers”); Pollack, 27 F.3d at 814 
(concluding that “the broad -based, unrestricted sales to the general investing 
public alleged in the complaint support[ed] a finding that these instruments are 
within the scope of the federal securities laws”). 
92 “A loan participation is a sharing or selling of ownership interests in a 
loan between two or more financial institutions.” FDIC Manual, supra note 1, § 3.2-
41. In a typical loan participation, a single institution “originates the loan,” and 
then “sells ownership interests to one or more participating banks.” Id. A 
syndicated loan is different in that multiple institutions “participate jointly in the 
[loan] origination process.” Id. § 3.2-73. 
93 973 F.2d at 55. 
94 Plaintiff objects that despite the similar restrictions on assignments, Banco 
Espanol is distinguishable because the loan participations there were “distributed 
to only 11 investors,” whereas here the Notes “were distributed to more than 400 

Accordingly, this factor weighs against concluding that the 
complaint plausibly alleges that the Notes are securities. 
3. The Public’s Reasonable Perceptions 
The third Reves factor requires us to “examine the reasonable 
expectations of the investing public.” 95 We “consider [notes] to be 
‘securities’ on the basis of such public expectations, even where an 
economic analysis of the circumstances of the particular transaction 
might suggest that the [notes] are not ‘securities’ as used in that 
transaction.”96 If buyer s were “given ample notice that the 
instruments were . . . loans and not investments in a business 
enterprise,” it suggests that the instruments are not securities.97 

investors.” Reply Br. at 12. Although the number of purchasers may be probative 
of whether the note is broadly available to the general public, in the circumstances 
presented here, the Notes’ distribution to more than 400 lenders did not render 
them available “to a broad segment of the public.” Reves, 494 U.S. at 68. 
95 Reves, 494 U.S. at 66. 
96 Id. Relying on this language , plaintiff asserts that the third Reves factor 
works “as a one-way ratchet” and that a “failure to satisfy it does not weigh against 
a finding that a[n] instrument is a security.” Pl . Br. at 41 (first quoting Stoiber v. 
SEC, 161 F.3d 745, 751 (D.C. Cir. 1998), then quoting Fox v. Dream Tr. , 743 F. Supp. 
2d 389, 400 (D.N.J. 2010)). We think p laintiff is incorrect. All that language from 
Reves means is that an instrument is a security if the public reasonably expects that 
the instrument is a security, even if the other three factors weigh against concluding 
that the instrument is a security. If the public does not reasonably expect that an 
instrument is a security, then the third Reves factor will be considered alongside the 
other Reves factors. 
97 Banco Espanol, 973 F.2d at 55. 

The pleaded facts do not plausibly suggest that the lenders 
reasonably perceived the Notes as securities. Instead, we are 
persuaded that the sophisticated entities that purchased the Notes 
“were given ample notice that the [Notes] were . . . loans and not 
investments in a business enterprise.”98 Before purchasing the Notes, 
the lenders certified that they were “sophisticated and experienced in 
extending credit to entities similar to [Millennium].” 99 They also 
certified that they had “independently and without reliance upon any 
Agent or any Lender, and based on such documents and information 
as [they] ha[ve] deemed appropriate, made [their] own appraisal of 
and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and 
other condition and creditworthiness of [Millennium ] and made 
[their] own decision to make [their] Loans hereunder.” 100 Th is 
certification is substantively identical to the certification made by the 
purchasers in Banco Espanol, which was central to our dete rmination 
that the buyers there could not have reasonably perceived the loan 
participations as securities.101 

98 Id. 
99 J.A. 566. 
100 Id. at 539. 
101 In Banco Espanol , “sophisticated purchasers” entered a “Master 
Participation Agreement” under which they “acknowledge[d] that [they] ha[d] 
independently and without reliance upon [the bank] and based upon such 
documents and information as the [sophisticated purchaser had] deemed 
appropriate, made [their] own credit analysis.” 973 F.2d at 53, 55. 

Plaintiff argues that the fact that the loan documents at times 
refer to the buyers as “investors” plausibly suggests that the buyers 
reasonably expected that the Notes were securities. 102 We disagree. 
First, the re are only isolated references to “investors” in the loan 
documents. These isolated references could not have plausibly created 
the reasonable expectation that the buyers were investing in 
securities.103 Second, the loan documents more consistently refer to 
the buyers as “lenders.” This label aligns with the reasonable 
expectations of the experienced entities that the Notes were not 
securities. 
In sum, this factor weighs against concluding that the complaint 
plausibly alleges that the Notes are securities.104 

102 See J.A. 561 (referring to “Public Side Investors”); id. at 572 (providing a 
“Public investors dial-in” number). 
103 Likewise, under these circumstances, JP Morgan’s assignment of a “High 
Yield Research Analyst” to track the secondary market could not plausibly have 
made the experienced lenders reasonably believe that they were investing in 
securities. See id. at 55. 
104 The District Court suggested that the third Reves factor weighed against 
finding that the Notes are securities because plaintiff “cited no case in which a court 
has held that a syndicated term loan is a ‘security.’” Sp ecial App’x 47. That 
reasoning is circular. It would mean that no court could ever find that the 
reasonable expectations of the investing public are that a syndicated term loan is a 
security. As Reves instructs, in assessing whether a given note is a security, “we are 
not bound by legal formalisms, but instead take a ccount of the economics of the 
transaction under investigation.” 494 U.S. at 61 (emphasis added). It is possible that 
a court faced with a different transaction could find that the reasonable investing 
public perceived an instrument labelled a “syndicated term loan” to be a “security.” 
Cf. id. (“Congress’ purpose in enacting the securities laws was to regulate 

4. Whether some other risk-reducing factor renders application of 
securities laws unnecessary 
The fourth Reves factor requires us to “examine whether some 
factor such as the existence of another regulatory scheme significantly 
reduces the risk of the instrument, thereby rendering application of the 
Securities Acts unnecessary.” 105 Among the factors that reduce the 
risks associated with an instrument are whether the instrument is 
secured by collate ral or is insured106 and whether “specific policy 
guidelines”107 issued by federal regulators address the type of 
instrument at issue. 

investments, in whatever form they are made and by whatever name they are 
called.”). 
105 Reves, 494 U.S. at 67. 
106 See Reves, 494 U.S. at 69 (findin g “no risk-reducing factor to suggest that 
[the notes at issue] are not in fact securities,” in part because they were 
“uncollateralized and uninsured”); Pollack, 27 F.3d at 814 (observing in connection 
with the analysis of the fourth Reves factor that the “amended complaint specifically 
alleges that the mortgage participations were ‘not secured’ and were 
‘uncollateralized’”). “Collateral” is “[p]roperty that is pledged as security against 
a debt.” Collateral , Black’s Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019); see FDIC Manual , supra 
note 1, § 3.2-66 (describing the requirements for establishing a perfected security 
interest in collateral). 
107 Banco Espanol, 973 F.2d at 55. 

The pleaded facts do not plausibly suggest that application of 
securities laws108 are necessary here for two reasons.109 First, the Notes 
were “secured by a perfected first priority security interest in all of 
[Millennium’s] tangible and intangible assets ,” i.e., Millennium’s 
collateral.110 That perfected first priority security interest reduces the 
risk associated with the Notes. Second, the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (jointly, the 
“Bank Regulators”) issu ed “specific policy guidelines” 111 addressing 
syndicated term loans.112 
Plaintiff contends that the Bank Regulators’ guidance does not 
constitute “another regulatory scheme [that] significantly reduces the 
risk of the” 113 Notes “because the Bank Regulators’ guidance merely 
addresses risk management controls to ensure sound banking 

108 Plaintiff does not argue that our analysis of the fourth Reves factor is 
affected by the fact that he brought claims under state securities laws as opposed 
to the Securities Acts. 
109 Reves, 494 U.S. at 67. 
110 J.A. 382–83. 
111 Banco Espanol , 973 F.2d at 55 (concluding that the fourth Reves factor 
weighed against concluding that the loan participations were securities where “the 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has issued specific policy guidelines 
addressing the sale of loan participations”). 
112 See, e.g. , Interagency Guidance on Leveraged Lending , 78 Fed. Reg. 17766 , 
2013 WL 1154182 (Mar. 22, 2013); Comptroller’s Handbook, supra note 12. 
113 Reves, 494 U.S. at 67. 

practices and minimize risks to banks” and “does not address risks to 
investors.”114 Although it is true that the guidance aims to minimize 
risks to banks, in doing so it also aims to protect consumers. For 
example, the Bank Regulators have explained that t he purpose of 
“supervisory guidance [is to] provide[] examples of practices that the 
[Bank Regulators] generally consider[] consistent with safety -and-
soundness standards or other applicable laws and regulations, 
including those designed to protect consumers.”115 Moreover, we already 
considered and rejected the argument raised by plaintiff here in Banco 
Espanol.116 We were unpersuaded then, and plaintiff offers no 
compelling reason to revisit that decision now. 117 

114 Pl. Br. at 45. Plaintiff does not argue that the issued guidance is ineffective 
in minimizing risks to banks. 
115 12 C.F.R. § 262, App. A (2021) (emphasis added); see also id. § 4, Subpt. F, 
App. A (same); id. § 302, App. A (same). 
116 See Brief of the SEC as Amicus Curiae at 40–41, Banco Espanol de Credito v. 
Sec. Pac. Nat’l Bank, 973 F.2d 51 (2d Cir. 1992), 1992 WL 12936369. In Banco Espanol, 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) argued, as amicus curiae, that 
the “guidelines [issued by the Offi ce of the Comptroller of the Currency] for 
national banks purchasing loan participations” were insufficient to render 
application of the Securities Acts unnecessary because they “addressed . . . steps 
national banks should take before they purchase loan participations” and had “no 
applicability” as to the “plaintiff purchasers” because “none are national banks.” 
Id. at 37, 40–41. 
117 Nor does the SEC. Following argument in this case, we entered an order 
“solicit[ing] any views that the [SEC] may wish to share on th[e] issue” of whether 
the Notes are securities under Reves. Order, Kirschner v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., 
No. 21-2726 (2d Cir. Mar. 16, 2023), ECF No. 170. After receiving several extensions 
of time to file its response to our invitation to provide its views on this question, 

Accordingly, this factor weighs against concluding that the 
complaint plausibly alleges that the Notes are securities. 
*** 
To summarize our application of the Reves factors to the pleaded 
facts: 
• The first factor —the motivations of the parties —weighs in 
favor of concluding that the complaint plausibly suggests that 
the Notes are securities because, although Millennium’s 
motivation appears to be “ commercial,” the lenders ’ 
motivations were “investment.” 
• The second factor—the plan of distribution—weighs against 
concluding that the complaint plausibly sugge sts that the 
Notes are securities because they were unavailable to the 
general public by virtue of restrictions on assignments of the 
Notes. 
• The third factor—the reasonable expectations of the public—
weighs against concluding that the complaint plausibly 
suggests that the Notes are securities because the lenders 
were sophisticated and experienced institutional entities 
with ample notice that the Notes were not securities. 

the SEC notified the Court that “[d]espite diligent efforts to respond to the Court’s 
order and provide the [SEC’s] views, the staff is unfortunately not in a position to 
file a brief on behalf of the [SEC] in this matter.” Letter on behalf of Amicus Curiae 
SEC, Kirschner, No. 21-2726 (2d Cir. July 18, 2023), ECF No. 207. 

• The fourth factor —the existence of other risk -reducing 
factors—weighs against concluding that the complaint 
plausibly suggests that the Notes are securities because they 
were secured by collateral and federal regulators have issued 
specific policy guidance addressing syndicated loans. 
Upon our review of the pleaded facts, we conclud e that the 
Notes, like the loan participations in Banco Espanol , “bear[] a strong 
resemblance”118 to one of the enumerated categories of notes that are 
not securities: “[L]oans issued by banks for commercial purposes. ”119 
We accordingly hold that plaintiff has failed to plead facts plausibly 
suggesting that the Notes are securities under Reves v. Ernst & Young, 
494 U.S. 56 (1990) . The District Court therefore properly dismissed 
plaintiff’s state-law securities claims. 
III. CONCLUSION 
 In sum, we hold as follows: 
1) The District Court had jurisdiction over this action 
pursuant to the Edge Act because defendant-appellee 

118 Reves, 494 U.S. at 67. 
119 973 F.2d at 55–56 (“[U]nder the Reves family resemblance analysis . . . we 
hold that the loan participations in the instant case are analogous to the enumerated 
category of loans issued by banks for commercial purposes and therefore do not 
satisfy the statutory definition of ‘notes’ which are ‘securities.’”). 

JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. engaged in international 
or foreign banking as part of the Transaction; and 
2) The District Court properly dismissed plaintiff’s state-
law securities claims because he failed to plead facts 
plausibly suggesting that the Notes are securities 
under the “family resemblance” test established by the 
Supreme Court in Reves v. Ernst & Young, 494 U.S. 56 
(1990). 
We accordingly AFFIRM the District Court’s September 24, 
2018 order determining that it had jurisdiction over this matter 
pursuant to the Edge Act and AFFIRM its May 22, 2020 order 
dismissing plaintiff’s state-law securities claims.