21-0636-cv 
Nat'l Rifle Ass'n of Am. v. Vullo 
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT 

August Term 2024 
Originally Argued: January 13, 2022 
Originally Decided: September 22, 2022 
Reversed and Remanded: May 30, 2024 
Argued: November 13, 2024 
Decided: July 17, 2025 
Docket No. 21-0636-cv 

NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA, 
Plaintiff-Appellee, 
- against - 
MARIA T. VULLO, 
 Defendant-Appellant, 
ANDREW CUOMO, THE NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT 
OF FINANCIAL SERVICES, 
 Defendants.* 

* The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the official caption as set 
forth above. 

ON REMAND FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, 
NO. 22-842 

Before: 
CHIN, CARNEY, and ROBINSON, Circuit Judges.** 

Interlocutory appeal from a decision of the United States District 
Court for the Northern District of New York (McAvoy, J.), denying defendant-
appellant state official's motion to dismiss for failure to state a First Amendment 
claim and for qualified immunity. This Court previously reversed the district 
court's order and held that plaintiff-appellee, a pro-gun advocacy group, failed to 
state a First Amendment claim and that the state official was entitled to qualified 
immunity. The Supreme Court granted certiorari to determine only whether the 
complaint stated a plausible First Amendment claim. Concluding that it did, the 
Supreme Court reversed our holding on that issue and remanded the case for 
further proceedings but noted that this Court was free on remand to reconsider 
the issue of qualified immunity. We have now reconsidered the issue, and we 
conclude again that the state official was entitled to qualified immunity. 

** This Court first heard this case in 2022 with a panel consisting of Judges Pooler, 
Chin, and Carney. After Judge Pooler passed in 2023, this case returned to us on 
remand from the Supreme Court, and Judge Robinson was randomly assigned to fill 
Judge Pooler's seat on the panel. 

Although the general principle that a government official cannot coerce a private 
party to punish or suppress disfavored speech was well established, the law was 
not clearly established that the conduct alleged here -- regulatory action directed 
at the nonexpressive conduct of third parties -- constituted coercion or retaliation 
violative of the First Amendment. Accordingly, we reverse the district court's 
qualified immunity ruling and remand for the district court to enter judgment 
dismissing the remaining claims. 
REVERSED AND REMANDED. 

WILLIAM E. HAVEMANN (Neil Kumar Katyal and 
Danielle Desaulniers Stempel, on the brief), 
Hogan Lovells US LLP, Washington, D.C., 
and Mary B. McCord and William Powell, 
Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and 
Protection, Washington, D.C., on the brief, 
for Defendant-Appellant. 

NOEL J. FRANCISCO, Jones Day, Washington, D.C., 
and William A. Brewer III, Sarah B. Rogers, 
and Noah Peters, Brewer, Attorneys & 
Counselors, New York, NY, on the brief, 
for Plaintiff-Appellee. 

Robert Corn-Revere and Joshua A. House, Washington, 
D.C., for Amicus Foundation for Individual 
Rights and Expression. 

CHIN, Circuit Judge: 
This case involves First Amendment claims brought by Plaintiff-
Appellee National Rifle Association of America (the "NRA") against Defendant-
Appellant Maria T. Vullo, the former Superintendent of the New York State 
Department of Financial Services ("DFS") under former Governor Andrew 
Cuomo. According to the NRA, Vullo violated its rights to free speech and equal 
protection by engaging in behavior that established an implicit censorship 
regime and by retaliating against the NRA for its speech through her interactions 
with various insurers doing business in New York. Vullo argues that she is 
entitled to qualified immunity, but the NRA maintains that she violated clearly 
established law prohibiting coercion or retaliation violative of the First 
Amendment. 
Below, the district court denied Vullo's motion pursuant to Fed. R. 
Civ. P. 12(b)(6) to dismiss the NRA's First Amendment claims for failure to state 
a claim or, in the alternative, on qualified immunity grounds. Nat'l Rifle Ass'n of 
Am. v. Cuomo, 525 F. Supp. 3d 382, 411 (N.D.N.Y. 2021). On appeal, this Court 
reversed and held that the NRA failed to state a First Amendment claim and that 
-- even assuming that the complaint stated a plausible First Amendment claim -- 

Vullo was entitled to qualified immunity. See Nat'l Rifle Ass'n of Am. v. Vullo, 49 
F.4th 700, 718-21 (2d Cir. 2022) (Vullo I). The NRA then petitioned the Supreme 
Court for review, which granted certiorari to address only the first issue: whether 
the NRA stated a plausible First Amendment claim. See Nat'l Rifle Ass'n of Am. v. 
Vullo, 144 S. Ct. 375 (2023) (mem.). Answering in the affirmative, the Supreme 
Court reversed our holding on that issue and remanded the case for further 
proceedings. See Nat'l Rifle Ass'n of Am. v. Vullo, 602 U.S. 175, 199 (2024) (Vullo 
II). It left unanswered whether Vullo was entitled to qualified immunity on the 
facts alleged, stating that this Court was free to "reconsider" the issue on remand. 
Id. at 199 n.7. 
As discussed more fully below, we conclude again that Vullo is 
entitled to qualified immunity, for the law was not clearly established that the 
conduct alleged here -- regulatory action directed at the nonexpressive conduct 
of third parties -- constituted coercion or retaliation violative of the First 
Amendment. Accordingly, we REVERSE the district court's denial of Vullo's 
motion to dismiss on the basis of qualified immunity, and we REMAND for the 
district court to enter judgment dismissing the remaining claims. 

BACKGROUND 
In this appeal challenging the district court's decision on a motion to 
dismiss, we accept the material facts in the operative complaint as true and draw 
all reasonable inferences in the NRA's favor. See Miller v. United States ex rel. 
Miller, 110 F.4th 533, 538 (2d Cir. 2024). 
I. The Facts 
A. The Parties 
The NRA is a pro-gun advocacy group and "America's leading 
provider of gun-safety and marksmanship education for civilians and law 
enforcement." App'x at 137 ¶ 1. It "spends tens of millions of dollars annually 
distributing . . . literature to advocate for its views on the Second Amendment 
and to assist NRA members engaging in national, state, and local firearm 
dialogue." Id. at 140 ¶ 12. The NRA has also contracted with various insurance 
companies to secure and maintain coverage for its own operational activities as 
well as to offer various types of affinity-based insurance coverage to its members 
"on affordable, tailored terms." Id. at 147-48 ¶¶ 29, 30. Several of those affinity 
insurance policies were administered and marketed by Lockton Companies, LLC 

("Lockton"), and underwritten by Chubb Limited ("Chubb") and Lloyd's of 
London ("Lloyd's"). Id. at 148-49 ¶¶ 31-32, 162-63 ¶ 69. 
DFS regulates all three of those entities and many others like them, 
in line with its stated policy goal of "'ensur[ing] the continued solvency, safety, 
[and] soundness' of banks and insurance companies." Id. at 146 ¶ 26 (second 
alteration in original) (quoting N.Y. Fin. Serv. Law § 201). At all times relevant to 
this case, DFS was led by Vullo, who possessed "broad regulatory and 
enforcement powers" over entities such as Lockton, Chubb, and Lloyd's. Id. at 
146 ¶ 25. Those powers included "the ability to initiate civil and criminal 
investigations" into regulated entities and the authority to refer matters to the 
New York State attorney general for criminal enforcement. Id. At the heart of 
this case is the NRA's allegation that Vullo used those powers to coerce and 
retaliate against financial institutions that conducted business with the NRA to 
deprive the NRA and its members of their First Amendment rights. 
B. The "Carry Guard" Investigation 
In September 2017, the New York County District Attorney's Office 
advised DFS of the apparent illegality of an NRA-endorsed affinity insurance 
program called "Carry Guard." Id. at 149-50 ¶¶ 34-35. As the NRA describes it, 

Carry Guard was a program that provided "dynamic, state-of-the-art insurance 
protection" through "a cutting edge set of features that will help gun owners 
mitigate the potentially costly financial and legal consequences flowing from 
armed encounters, even if they did everything right." Id. at 190 ¶ 5. But Carry 
Guard was cutting-edge partly because the program provided high-risk, excess-
line coverage that could not be obtained from traditional authorized insurers, see 
id. at 192 ¶¶ 11-12, as "many homeowners' policies [had] severe limitations or 
exclusions related to intentional acts such as self-defense," id. at 191 ¶ 7. Notably, 
Carry Guard insured New York residents for intentional, reckless, and criminally 
negligent acts with a firearm that injured or killed another person, even beyond 
the use of reasonable force to protect persons or property. See id. at 192 ¶ 13, 233 
¶ 9. 
In October 2017, DFS opened an investigation into the program to 
consider whether certain features of Carry Guard might violate New York 
insurance law. Id. at 150 ¶ 35. At first, the investigation was primarily directed 
at the insurance company that administered the policy -- Lockton -- but it 
expanded to cover also those that underwrote them -- Chubb and Lloyd's. See id. 
at 150 ¶¶ 35-36, 159 ¶ 62, 161 ¶ 67. The investigation also expanded beyond 

Carry Guard to cover other excess-line property and casualty policies related to 
firearms. Id. at 150 ¶¶ 35-36. 
Within weeks, the investigation not only confirmed the likely 
illegality of the scope of coverage under Carry Guard, but it also revealed that 
the NRA promoted Carry Guard and conducted other insurance business 
without an insurance producer license, likely in violation of New York insurance 
law. Id. at 192-93 ¶¶ 13-14 (Lockton); id. at 213 ¶¶ 10-12 (Chubb); id. at 233 ¶¶ 9-
11 (Lloyd's). 
C. The Lloyd's Meetings 
In February 2018, a shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School in Parkland, Florida, left seventeen students and staff dead and 
galvanized parts of the American public to speak out against gun violence. See 
Vullo I, 49 F.4th at 708 & nn.3-5 (collecting articles). As the DFS investigation 
continued against that backdrop, Vullo began meeting with senior executives at 
Lloyd's to "present[] [her] views on gun control and [her] desire to leverage [her] 
powers to combat the availability of firearms, including specifically by 
weakening the NRA." App'x at 161 ¶ 67. At those meetings (the "Lloyd's 
Meetings"), Vullo allegedly "discussed an array of technical regulatory 

infractions plaguing the affinity-insurance marketplace," id. at 144 ¶ 21, and 
specifically addressed issues related to excess-line insurance programs like Carry 
Guard, see id. at 162 ¶ 69. She also allegedly "made clear that Lloyd's could avoid 
liability for infractions relat[ed] to" those policies "so long as it aided DFS's 
campaign against gun groups" like the NRA. Id. at 162-63 ¶ 69. 
In the wake of those discussions, Lloyd's agreed to "instruct its 
syndicates to cease underwriting firearm-related policies" and to "scale back its 
NRA-related business . . . in exchange" for DFS's decision to focus its 
forthcoming enforcement efforts "solely on those syndicates which served the 
NRA." Id. And indeed, a few months later on May 9, 2018, Lloyd's announced 
that it had directed its underwriters to terminate all current insurance policies 
related to the NRA and to cease providing insurance to the NRA in the future. 
Id. at 164 ¶ 72. 
D. Cuomo's Press Release and Vullo's Guidance Letters 
About two months after the Lloyd's Meetings, Cuomo issued a press 
release on April 19, 2018, entitled, "Governor Cuomo Directs Department of 
Financial Services to Urge Companies to Weigh Reputational Risk of Business 
Ties to the NRA and Similar Organizations." Id. at 180 (the "Press Release"). As 

its title suggests, the Press Release announced that, upon Cuomo's directive, 
Vullo would urge financial services companies to review relationships they had 
with the NRA and "consider whether such ties harm their corporate reputations 
and jeopardize public safety." Id. It also cited DFS as "encouraging regulated 
entities to consider reputational risk and promote corporate responsibility," and 
reported that "[a] number of businesses have ended relationships with the NRA 
following the Parkland, Florida school shooting in order to realign their 
company's values." Id. at 181. Finally, the Press Release quoted Vullo as stating, 
"DFS urges all insurance companies and banks doing business in New York to 
join the companies that have already discontinued their arrangements with the 
NRA, and to take prompt actions to manage these risks and promote public 
health and safety." Id. 
Per Cuomo's directive, Vullo contemporaneously issued a pair of 
memoranda both entitled "Guidance on Risk Management Relating to the NRA 
and Similar Gun Promotion Organizations," on April 19, 2018. Id. at 183-84, 186-
87 (the "Guidance Letters"). Although they were issued to the leaders of different 
types of financial groups, they were essentially identical in content. Both 
referenced the Parkland shooting and other recent gun violence tragedies, and 

both cited the strength and growing intensity of the "social backlash" against the 
NRA and similar gun-promoting organizations. Id. at 183, 186. Both also 
declared that the "tragic devastation caused by gun violence . . . is a public safety 
and health issue," and they reminded regulated entities that "engagement in 
communities they serve is closely tied to the business they do with their clients 
and customers and its impact on such communities." Id. at 183; see id. at 186 
("The manner by which financial institutions engage in communities they serve is 
closely tied to the business they do with their clients and customers and its 
impact on such communities."). Finally, both of the Guidance Letters declared: 
In light of the above, and subject to compliance with 
applicable laws, the Department encourages [regulated 
institutions] to continue evaluating and managing their 
risks, including reputational risks, that may arise from 
their dealings with the NRA or similar gun promotion 
organizations, if any, as well as continued assessment of 
compliance with their own codes of social responsibility. 
The Department encourages regulated institutions to 
review any relationships they have with the NRA or 
similar gun promotion organizations, and to take prompt 
actions to managing these risks and promote public health 
and safety. 
Id. at 184, 187. 

E. The Consent Decrees 
Although the Press Release and Guidance Letters did not refer to 
any ongoing investigations into -- or enforcement actions against -- any DFS-
regulated institutions, the Carry Guard investigation continued into the spring of 
2018. And it ended only when Lockton, Chubb, and Lloyd's all entered into 
consent orders with DFS on May 2, May 7, and December 20, 2018, respectively. 
Id. at 156 ¶ 54 (Lockton); id. at 159 ¶ 62 (Chubb); id. at 164 ¶ 74 (Lloyd's) 
(together, the "Consent Decrees"). 
In the Consent Decrees, all three entities admitted that some of the 
NRA-endorsed insurance programs they offered violated New York insurance 
law and that they engaged in other business with the NRA on terms that violated 
New York insurance law. See id. at 199-200 ¶¶ 34-40 (Lockton); id. at 215 ¶¶ 18-
19 (Chubb); id. at 234-35 ¶¶ 16-17 (Lloyd's). All three agreed to pay penalties and 
to limit substantially -- although not entirely -- the ways in which they did 
business with the NRA and similar entities moving forward. See id. at 200-03 
¶¶ 41-47 (Lockton); id. at 215-17 ¶¶ 20-26 (Chubb); id. at 235-38 ¶¶ 18-26 
(Lloyd's). 

II. Procedural History 
The NRA filed suit on May 11, 2018, asserting that DFS, Cuomo, and 
Vullo violated several of its statutory and constitutional rights by engaging in the 
conduct described above. 
In its second amended complaint (the "SAC") filed June 2, 2020, the 
NRA again alleged that DFS, then-current DFS superintendent Linda A. 
Lacewell, Cuomo, and Vullo waged a "campaign [that] involve[d] selective 
prosecution, backroom exhortations, and public threats with a singular goal -- to 
deprive the NRA and its constituents of their First Amendment rights to speak 
freely about gun-related issues and defend their Second Amendment freedoms 
against encroachment." Id. at 135-36. The NRA specifically alleged that Vullo's 
"concerted efforts to stifle the NRA's freedom of speech and to retaliate against 
the NRA" caused "financial institutions doing business with the NRA to rethink 
their mutually beneficial business relationships with the NRA for fear of 
monetary sanctions or expensive public investigations." Id. at 167 ¶ 80; see also id. 
at 152 ¶¶ 42, 44; id. at 168 ¶ 84. Defendants moved to dismiss the SAC in 
motions filed on June 23, 2020. See id. at 40. 

In an order dated March 15, 2021, the district court dismissed all the 
claims against DFS, Lacewell, and Cuomo as barred by the Eleventh 
Amendment, Cuomo, 525 F. Supp. 3d at 403-11, and it dismissed the selective 
enforcement claim against Vullo on the basis of absolute immunity, id. at 392-400. 
The court left intact, however, the NRA's First Amendment claims against Vullo, 
after holding that Vullo was not entitled to qualified immunity on those claims at 
the motion-to-dismiss stage. Id. at 400-03. Vullo timely appealed that decision 
on March 22, 2021. App'x at 362. 
As noted, this Court reversed the district court's judgment and 
remanded the case for the district court to enter judgment for Vullo. Vullo I, 49 
F.4th at 721. We concluded that the SAC "fail[ed] to plausibly allege that Vullo 
unconstitutionally threatened or coerced Lloyd's or the other entities to stifle the 
NRA's speech" because the allegations therein "show[ed] that [Vullo] was simply 
executing her duties as DFS Superintendent and engaging in legitimate 
enforcement action." Id. at 719. And we concluded that, even assuming that the 
NRA sufficiently pleaded a First Amendment claim, Vullo was "nonetheless 
entitled to qualified immunity because the law was not clearly established and 

any First Amendment violation would not have been apparent to a reasonable 
official at the time." Id. 
The NRA petitioned the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari on 
February 7, 2023, seeking review of our First Amendment and qualified 
immunity holdings. The Supreme Court granted the NRA's petition on a limited 
basis, agreeing to hear only its challenge to our First Amendment holding. See 
Vullo, 144 S. Ct. at 375. And on May 30, 2024, the Supreme Court vacated our 
judgment and remanded the case, concluding that the NRA plausibly alleged a 
First Amendment violation. Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 191, 199. The Supreme Court 
held that any other conclusion was foreclosed by its decision in Bantam Books, Inc. 
v. Sullivan, 372 U.S. 58 (1963), which "stands for the principle that a government 
official cannot do indirectly what she is barred from doing directly: A 
government official cannot coerce a private party to punish or suppress 
disfavored speech on her behalf." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 190. Yet, in reviving the 
NRA's First Amendment claim, the Supreme Court noted that, on remand, this 
Court was "free to reconsider whether Vullo is entitled to qualified immunity." 
Id. at 199 n.7. 

On remand, we ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefs 
bearing on the issue of qualified immunity. The parties did so on July 29, 2024. 
In addition, between October 1 and November 4, 2024, the NRA and Vullo 
submitted letters citing supplemental authorities pursuant to Federal Rule of 
Appellate Procedure 28(j). We heard oral argument on November 13, 2024. 
DISCUSSION 
Vullo contends on remand that she is entitled to qualified immunity 
for her challenged conduct notwithstanding the Supreme Court's holding that 
the NRA plausibly alleged a First Amendment violation. We agree and proceed 
in two steps. First, although the Supreme Court has held that the NRA plausibly 
alleged a First Amendment claim, we take up Justice Jackson's invitation to 
consider separately the NRA's two distinct First Amendment theories: 
censorship and retaliation. See Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 203 (Jackson, J., concurring) 
("[T]he complaint in this case alleges both censorship and retaliation theories for 
how Vullo violated the First Amendment."). Second, we consider whether Vullo 
is entitled to qualified immunity, and we conclude that she is because the law 
did not clearly establish that her conduct -- which was directed at the 
nonexpressive conduct of third-party entities within her regulatory sphere -- 

constituted impermissible coercion or retaliation in a manner violative of the 
First Amendment. 
I. The First Amendment 
Although the SAC does not clearly set forth separate impermissible 
coercion and retaliation theories, and the NRA did not argue them as such, it 
contains sufficient factual allegations to support claims based on both. Compare 
App'x at 168 (Count One for the "Establishment Of An Implicit Censorship 
Regime"), with id. at 171 (Count Two for "Retaliat[ion] Against The NRA Based 
On Its Speech"). We differentiate between First Amendment claims based on 
impermissible coercion and retaliation theories because the two rest on 
temporally distinct factual allegations. Coercion involves an attempt to induce 
or prevent conduct before the fact, and it is unlawful when an official attempts to 
suppress or compel speech by conveying a threat of adverse action if the target 
does not comply. See generally Bantam Books, Inc. v. Sullivan, 372 U.S. 58 (1963). 
Retaliation, by contrast, involves punishment for conduct after the fact, and it is 
unlawful when an official takes adverse action against an entity merely because 
it engaged in speech that the official does not agree with. See generally Mt. 

Healthy City Sch. Dist. Bd. of Educ. v. Doyle, 429 U.S. 274 (1977). Given these 
differences, we evaluate the two theories separately. 
A. Impermissible Coercion 
As discussed further below, coercion violative of the First 
Amendment operates on two planes: who is being coerced and what conduct is 
being targeted. On the first plane, coercion can target the speaker itself (i.e., the 
person (or entity) engaging in expression), a conduit for the speaker (i.e., a 
person who disseminates the speech for the speaker), or a third-party associate of 
the speaker (i.e., a person with whom the speaker interacts or does business). On 
the second plane, coercion can be directed at expressive or nonexpressive 
conduct. But no matter the permutation, "[t]o state a claim that the government 
violated the First Amendment through coercion of a third party, a plaintiff must 
plausibly allege conduct that, viewed in context, could be reasonably understood 
to convey a threat of adverse government action in order to punish or suppress 
the plaintiff's speech." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 191 (majority opinion). 
In Zieper v. Metzinger, 474 F.3d 60 (2d Cir. 2007), for example, we 
found that a reasonable juror could conclude that the police unlawfully coerced a 
speaker into removing his dystopian film from the internet. Id. at 66-67. 

Concerned about the content of the film and afraid that it "was going to incite a 
riot," id. at 64, law enforcement officials repeatedly called the filmmaker and sent 
FBI agents and three police officers to his home over his lawyers' objections, id. at 
67. We found that those actions, and the accompanying comments, might 
constitute impermissible coercion because they suggested that "there might be 
legal consequences if he failed to accede to the government's request that he 
remove his video." Id. Zieper thus stands as a straightforward example of 
impermissible coercion: it involved coercing a speaker (the filmmaker) into 
ceasing his expressive conduct (by removing a film from the internet). 
If Zieper provides a straightforward example of impermissible 
coercion against a speaker targeting his or her expressive activity, Bantam Books, 
372 U.S. at 58, further instructs that a First Amendment claim may exist even 
where the coercion targets expressive activity but is more indirect because it 
targets a conduit of speech rather than the speaker. In that case, the Supreme 
Court found to be impermissibly coercive a state commission's letter to a book 
distributor notifying it that certain publications were deemed to be morally 
objectionable, requesting that they be removed from circulation, and threatening 
criminal referral to the state attorney general if the distributor failed to comply. 

Id. at 59-64. It did not matter that the plaintiffs in that case were the publishers of 
the books (i.e., the speakers) rather than the distributors themselves, because it 
was clear that the commission's actions constituted impermissible attempts to 
coerce the distributors into refusing to serve as a conduit for the publishers' 
expression. In other words, "Bantam Books stands for the principle that a 
government official cannot do indirectly what she is barred from doing directly: 
A government official cannot coerce a private party to punish or suppress 
disfavored speech on her behalf." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 190. 
Similarly, in Rattner v. Netburn, 930 F.2d 204 (2d Cir. 1991), we found 
to be impermissibly coercive a town official's letter to chamber of commerce 
members because it suggested that a town-wide boycott of their businesses 
would ensue unless the chamber removed a businessman's advertisement -- 
critical of town leadership -- from its periodic newspaper. Id. at 209-10. Unlike 
Zieper but like Bantam Books, Rattner involved coercion against a conduit of 
speech (the chamber and its newspaper) and targeted expressive activity (the ad 
in the newspaper). That the chamber removed the advertisement and ceased 
operations entirely showed that "a threat was perceived and its impact was 
demonstrable." Id. at 210. 

Next, in Okwedy v. Molinari, 333 F.3d 339 (2d Cir. 2003) (per curiam), 
we also found to be impermissibly coercive a New York City borough president's 
letter to a billboard company because -- although the letter did not explicitly 
threaten enforcement action -- its form and content nevertheless contained "an 
implicit threat" that retaliation would follow if the company "failed to accede" to 
the borough president's request to take down a controversial billboard paid for 
by a local church and its pastor. Id. at 344. Crucial to that holding were the facts 
that the letter was written on official city letterhead, its author "invoked his 
official authority" as borough president, it directed the billboard company to 
contact the borough president's "legal counsel" and chair of an "Anti-Bias Task 
Force," and it highlighted the author's awareness of the "substantial economic 
benefits" that the company derived from its billboards in the borough. Id. We 
concluded that these facts, taken together, plausibly alleged a claim of 
impermissible direct coercion because the challenged conduct exceeded mere 
attempts to convince. Id.; see also Zieper, 474 F.3d at 66 ("In determining whether 
a particular request to suppress speech is constitutional, what matters is the 
'distinction between attempts to convince and attempts to coerce.'" (quoting 
Okwedy, 333 F.3d at 344)). Like Bantam Books and Rattner, Okwedy involved 

impermissible coercion against a conduit of speech (the billboard company) and 
targeted patently expressive activity (the billboard display). 
Finally, while Zieper, Bantam Books, Rattner, and Okwedy all stand for 
the proposition that pushing speakers or conduits of speech to suppress their 
expressive activity may be unlawful if it becomes impermissible coercion or, 
indeed, censorship, Vullo II further instructs that a First Amendment claim may 
lie even when the challenged conduct targets a third-party business associate 
that does not itself engage in expressive activity. Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 196. Here, 
Vullo is not alleged to have targeted a speaker (the NRA) or a conduit for the 
NRA's speech (for example, a publisher) but third-party, regulated entities. 
Moreover, the coercive conduct alleged was not directed at speech or expressive 
conduct but at nonexpressive activity, i.e., underwriting insurance policies. 
Based on those allegations, Vullo II held that "the NRA plausibly alleged that 
Vullo violated the First Amendment by coercing DFS-regulated entities into 
disassociating with the NRA in order to punish or suppress the NRA's gun-
promotion advocacy." Id. at 191. 
Vullo II thus instructs that Vullo's conduct -- which targeted only the 
nonexpressive activity of the NRA's third-party business associates -- could form 

the basis for a viable First Amendment coercion claim. As the Supreme Court 
concluded, the NRA plausibly alleged that Vullo violated its First Amendment 
rights by coercing DFS-regulated entities into disassociating with the NRA with 
the aim of suppressing the latter's gun-promotion advocacy. See, e.g., App'x at 
150-51 ¶¶ 36-37 (alleging that Vullo's goal "was to disrupt any and all business 
arrangements between the NRA and any insurance administrator, broker, or 
underwriter" and "undermine [its] ability to conduct its affairs in New York"). 
B. Retaliation 
In addition to coercing the NRA's business partners into cutting 
business ties with the NRA, Vullo is alleged to have unlawfully retaliated against 
the NRA for its advocacy regarding the Second Amendment. To plead a First 
Amendment claim under a theory of unlawful retaliation, a plaintiff must allege 
that the defendant "took an adverse action in response to his speech that would 
not have been taken absent the retaliatory motive." Houston Cmty. Coll. Sys. v. 
Wilson, 595 U.S. 468, 477 (2022) (internal quotation marks omitted). But "[i]t is 
not enough to show that an official acted with a retaliatory motive and that the 
plaintiff was injured" -- a plaintiff must allege some "causal connection" between 
the alleged retaliatory animus and subsequent injury. Nieves v. Bartlett, 587 U.S. 

391, 398-99 (2019). The retaliation inquiry therefore proceeds in three steps: the 
plaintiff must first show that (1) its conduct was constitutionally protected and 
(2) that same conduct was a substantial or motivating factor in the defendant's 
decision to undertake the challenged actions, after which (3) the defendant may 
rebut those allegations by showing that "it would have reached the same 
decision . . . even in the absence of the protected conduct." Mt. Healthy, 429 U.S. 
at 287; accord Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 204 (Jackson, J., concurring). 
That final step establishes what is known as a Mt. Healthy defense, 
see, e.g., Anemone v. Metro. Trans. Auth., 629 F.3d 97, 117-18 (2d Cir. 2011), the 
availability of which is important because it balances the interest in legitimate 
regulatory enforcement against the need to uphold robust constitutional 
protections. So, although the First Amendment prohibits retaliation for speech 
generally, see Royal Crown Day Care LLC v. Dep't of Health & Mental Hygiene of 
N.Y., 746 F.3d 538, 544 (2d Cir. 2014), that prohibition does not impose an 
absolute bar against legitimate law enforcement. As the Supreme Court noted in 
Bantam Books: 
We do not hold that law enforcement officers must 
renounce all informal contacts with persons suspected of 
violating valid laws . . . . Where such consultation is 
genuinely undertaken with the purpose of aiding the 

[plaintiff] to comply with such laws and avoid prosecution 
under them, it need not retard the full enjoyment of First 
Amendment freedoms. 
372 U.S. at 71-72. And here, "much of Vullo's alleged conduct, if not done for 
retaliatory reasons, might otherwise be legitimate enforcement of New York's 
insurance regulations." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 203 (Jackson, J., concurring).
At this motion-to-dismiss stage, however, we need not -- and do not 
-- consider the viability of any Mt. Healthy defense.2 Here, as the Supreme Court 
concluded, the NRA sufficiently alleged that it engaged in constitutionally 
protected conduct, see, e.g., App'x at 140 ¶¶ 12-13, and that Vullo targeted its 
insurance providers in retaliation for that conduct, see, e.g., id. at 143 ¶ 19, 154 
¶ 48, 167-68 ¶¶ 80-85. 
II. Qualified Immunity 
Although the NRA plausibly alleged a First Amendment claim, we 
conclude that Vullo is entitled to qualified immunity because the First 

1 Indeed, the NRA conceded that the affinity insurance programs investigated by 
Vullo were in fact illegal. See NRA Supp. Br., ECF No. 143, at 7 (citing Vullo II, 602 U.S. 
at 187). 
2 Mt. Healthy defenses are best resolved at the summary judgment stage, when 
there is sufficient factual material from which to adequately scrutinize not only the 
challenged decisions but also the proffered reasons supporting them. See, e.g., Anemone, 
629 F.3d at 117-20. 

Amendment rights asserted were not clearly established at the time of the 
challenged conduct. True, the cases cited above clearly established that coercion 
amounting to censorship and retaliation violate the First Amendment as a 
general matter, but they did not sufficiently define the contours of that right such 
that it would have been clear to every reasonable official in 2017 or 2018 that 
Vullo's conduct with respect to a third party -- not a speaker or a speaker's 
conduit -- violated that right. 
We make two procedural observations before proceeding. First, we 
note that the Supreme Court explicitly left that question for this Court to 
"reconsider" on remand. Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 199 n.7. After all, the question of 
whether a plaintiff has adequately alleged a First Amendment violation is 
distinct from the question of whether the defendant is entitled to qualified 
immunity based on existing precedent. See Farid v. Ellen, 593 F.3d 233, 245 (2d 
Cir. 2010) ("For qualified immunity purposes, however, there is a separate 
question, which is whether the right violated by this conduct was clearly 
established."); see also McCullough v. Wyandanch Union Free Sch. Dist., 187 F.3d 
272, 277 (2d Cir. 1999) ("[I]t is not necessary for a district court to determine 
whether in fact the First Amendment was violated before deciding whether a 

defendant is entitled to qualified immunity."). We answer only the latter 
question here. 
Second, resolving the defense at the motion-to-dismiss stage is 
appropriate in this case because our conclusion is based on the law, and only 
after consideration of the facts as pleaded by the NRA and construed in its favor. 
See, e.g., Matzell v. Annucci, 64 F.4th 425, 436 (2d Cir. 2023); Smith v. Garretto, 147 
F.3d 91, 95 (2d Cir. 1998); Molinelli v. Tucker, 901 F.2d 13, 15-17 (2d Cir. 1990); 
Vega v. Miller, 273 F.3d 460, 466-71 (2d Cir. 2001).3 We see no need to postpone 
ruling on Vullo's qualified immunity defense because this is not a case where 
discovery into the claims and allegations would make a difference in the analysis 

3 We generally prefer lower courts to resolve qualified immunity defenses at the 
summary judgment stage because, at that point, facts uncovered during discovery will 
have shed more light on the conduct at issue. See Walker v. Schult, 717 F.3d 119, 130 (2d 
Cir. 2013) ("[Q]ualified immunity is often best decided on a motion for summary 
judgment when the details of the alleged deprivations are more fully developed."). 
But resolving a qualified immunity defense at the motion-to-dismiss stage may be 
preferable if the defense is based on the law rather than on undiscovered or disputed 
facts. See, e.g., Garcia v. Does, 779 F.3d 84, 97 (2d Cir. 2015) ("The Supreme Court has 
made clear that qualified immunity can be established by the facts alleged in a 
complaint, and . . . that the issue should be resolved when possible on a motion to 
dismiss, before the commencement of discovery, to avoid subjecting public officials to 
time consuming and expensive discovery." (citations and internal quotations marks 
omitted)); accord Drimal v. Tai, 786 F.3d 219, 225 (2d Cir. 2015). In those instances, 
resolving a qualified immunity defense at the earliest possible stage is desirable because 
it prevents dragging public officials into prolonged and expensive litigation. 

of the asserted defense.4 In short, the defense is properly asserted and decided at 
this stage here because "the facts supporting [it] appeared on the face of the 
complaint." McKenna v. Wright, 386 F.3d 432, 435 (2d Cir. 2004). 
A. Applicable Law 
Qualified immunity protects "all but the plainly incompetent or 
those who knowingly violate the law," and it generally attaches to conduct that 
"does not violate clearly established statutory or constitutional rights of which a 
reasonable person would have known." White v. Pauly, 580 U.S. 73, 78-79 (2017) 
(per curiam) (quoting Mullenix v. Luna, 577 U.S. 7, 11-12 (2015) (per curiam)). In 
this Circuit, officials are generally entitled to qualified immunity for their official 
acts unless the plaintiff "pleads facts showing (1) that the official violated a 
statutory or constitutional right, and (2) that the right was 'clearly established' at 
the time of the challenged conduct." Tanvir v. Tanzin, 120 F.4th 1049, 1060 (2d 
Cir. 2024) (quoting Ashcroft v. al-Kidd, 563 U.S. 731, 735 (2011)). Courts need not 

4 See, e.g., Levantino v. Skala, 56 F. Supp. 3d 191, 202-03 (E.D.N.Y. 2014) (rejecting 
qualified immunity defense at motion-to-dismiss stage because discovery was required 
to determine whether defendants had probable cause to arrest and detain the plaintiff); 
Kanciper v. Lato, 989 F. Supp. 2d 216, 232-33 (E.D.N.Y. 2013) (same, as to malicious 
prosecution and abuse of process claims); Kaplan v. County of Orange, 528 F. Supp. 3d 
141, 166-71 (S.D.N.Y. 2021) (same, as to unreasonable search and seizure, false 
imprisonment, and excessive force claims, because discovery was required to determine 
whether the officers' actions were objectively reasonable). 

address these two prongs in a particular order and may "exercise their sound 
discretion in deciding which of the two prongs of the qualified immunity 
analysis should be addressed first in light of the circumstances in the particular 
case at hand." Id. (quoting Sabir v. Williams, 52 F.4th 51, 58 (2d Cir. 2022)); see also 
Pearson v. Callahan, 555 U.S. 223, 236-37 (2009) (stating that this process prevents 
"a substantial expenditure of scarce judicial resources on difficult questions that 
have no effect on the outcome of the case"). Accordingly, qualified immunity is 
defeated only if both requirements are met and applies so long as one is not met. 
As the NRA has plausibly alleged that Vullo violated its First 
Amendment rights, she is entitled to qualified immunity only if the rights at 
issue in this case were not "clearly established" at the time of her challenged 
conduct. Tanvir, 120 F.4th at 1060; see, e.g., Montero v. City of Yonkers, 890 F.3d 
386, 402-03 (2d Cir. 2018); Smith, 147 F.3d at 94-95; Bacon v. Phelps, 961 F.3d 533, 
545 (2d Cir. 2020). 
For a right to be clearly established, "existing precedent must have 
placed the statutory or constitutional question beyond debate," al-Kidd, 563 U.S. at 
741 (emphasis added), such that the ensuing rules declare with a "high degree of 
specificity" which conduct is permitted and not, Liberian Cmty. Ass'n v. Lamont, 

970 F.3d 174, 186 (2d Cir. 2020) (internal quotation marks omitted). In other 
words, a right alleged to have been violated is clearly established only if it is 
"sufficiently clear" to "every reasonable official" that the challenged conduct, in 
the "specific context of the case," violates that right. Radwan v. Manuel, 55 F.4th 
101, 114 (2d Cir. 2022) (first quoting Reichle v. Howards, 566 U.S. 658, 664 (2012); 
and then quoting Mullenix, 577 U.S. at 12).
5 "In determining if a right is clearly 
established, this Court looks to whether (1) it was defined with reasonable 
clarity, (2) the Supreme Court or the Second Circuit has confirmed the existence 
of the right, and (3) a reasonable defendant would have understood that his 
conduct was unlawful." Id. (quoting Doninger v. Niehoff, 642 F.3d 334, 345 (2d Cir. 
2011)). Absent controlling authority from the Supreme Court or this Circuit, a 
plaintiff may still show that a right is clearly established if "a robust consensus of 
cases of persuasive authority" says so. Id. (quoting De La Rosa v. White, 852 F.3d 
740, 746 (8th Cir. 2017)). 

5 See also Pena v. DePrisco, 432 F.3d 98, 114 (2d Cir. 2005) ("The relevant, dispositive 
inquiry in determining whether a federal right is clearly established is whether it would 
have been clear to a reasonable officer that his conduct was unlawful in the situation he 
confronted." (alterations adopted) (quoting Saucier v. Katz, 533 U.S. 194, 202 (2001), 
overruled in part on other grounds by Pearson, 555 U.S. at 227)). 

An official is thus qualifiedly "immune from liability unless, under 
the particular circumstances the official faced, any 'reasonable official' would 
have 'known for certain that the conduct was unlawful' under then-existing 
precedent." Lamont, 970 F.3d at 187 (alteration adopted) (quoting Ziglar v. Abbasi, 
582 U.S. 120, 152 (2017)). We have observed that this is generally the case in any 
of the following three circumstances: First, that right may not be clearly 
established because the conduct challenged in a case simply predates any and all 
judicial opinions announcing that the specific conduct violated a statutory or 
constitutional right.6 Second, the asserted right may not be clearly established 
because there is no controlling law on the issue.7 Or third, that right may not be 
clearly established because the relevant caselaw, persuasive as it may be, does 
not clearly bar the challenged conduct.8 We list these circumstances in order of 

6 See, e.g., Matzell, 64 F.4th at 436 (applying qualified immunity because the 
conduct at issue took place in 2017-2018, predating the 2021 "precedent establishing that 
[d]efendants' conduct violated" the Constitution). 
7 See, e.g., Mudge v. Zugalla, 939 F.3d 72, 79-80 (2d Cir. 2019) (applying qualified 
immunity because only federal district and state courts had established the right, and 
that is "insufficient" to establish "a clear[] . . . substantive federal constitutional right"); 
Smith, 147 F.3d at 95 (applying qualified immunity because "[n]o case has previously 
been decided in which [the conduct at issue] was ruled to be" a violation of 
Constitutional rights); Terebesi v. Torreso, 764 F.3d 217, 233 (2d Cir. 2014) (same). 
8 See, e.g., Zieper, 474 F.3d at 70 (applying qualified immunity because "[t]he 
defendants' statements and conduct fall considerably short of the thinly veiled threats 
of prosecution issued in Bantam Books"); Molinelli, 901 F.2d at 16-17 (applying qualified 

theoretical difficulty; that is, it is generally most difficult to establish a qualified 
immunity defense under the third circumstance, because the Supreme Court has 
made it clear that "officials can still be on notice that their conduct violates 
established law even in novel factual circumstances." Vega v. Semple, 963 F.3d 
259, 277 (2d Cir. 2020) (quoting Hope v. Pelzer, 536 U.S. 730, 741 (2002)) (rejecting 
a defense seeking qualified immunity "absent binding precedent that addresses 
the very same carcinogen in this case"). In those cases, courts must grapple with 
the difficult question of whether the relevant factual circumstances are truly 
"novel" under existing precedent. Compare, e.g., Zieper, 474 F.3d at 70 (granting 
qualified immunity on a First Amendment coercion claim because the threats at 
issue were not as "thinly veiled" as those in Bantam Books), with Semple, 963 F.3d 
at 277 (declining to find that qualified immunity was proper on the basis that "no 
binding decision discusses the constitutional implications of radon exposure to 
inmates," because it was sufficient that precedent had addressed the implications 
of toxic environmental substances more generally). 

immunity because the authorities cited by the parties created a "conflict of opinion" and 
at best "express uncertainty as to the state of the law on this issue"); Miller, 273 F.3d at 
467 (applying qualified immunity because "the available precedents that might usefully 
have guided the [d]efendants leave the unlawfulness of their action at least unclear"). 

B. Application 
Vullo is entitled to qualified immunity on the NRA's impermissible 
coercion and retaliation claims because the First Amendment rights at issue were 
not clearly established at the time of the challenged conduct. See Tanvir, 120 
F.4th at 1060. Reasonable officials in Vullo's position "would [not] have known 
for certain," Lamont, 970 F.3d at 187 (internal quotation marks omitted), based on 
the cases cited above, that her conduct crossed the line from forceful but 
permissible persuasion to impermissible coercion and retaliation. 
We start with the premise that a state official may "share her views 
freely and criticize particular beliefs, and she can do so forcefully in the hopes of 
persuading others to follow her lead," as long as she does not "use the power of 
the State to punish or suppress disfavored expression." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 188. 
The NRA alleges that Vullo crossed that line when she purportedly pressured 
insurance companies and banks into cutting certain business ties with the NRA 
and pursued investigations and enforcement actions against its business 
partners.

9 The NRA does not dispute that Vullo's responsibilities as DFS superintendent 
included enforcing the conceded violations of New York insurance law that gave rise to 
her communications with the third-party insurers. Indeed, while "DFS's regulatory 

To be clear, we do not hold that an official may infringe the statutory 
or constitutional rights of any person or entity if she can find some sufficiently 
novel way to use her office and powers to do so. Rather, we hold here that 
qualified immunity is proper only because no case (or set of cases) had clearly 
established, by the time of Vullo's conduct, that exercising regulatory power to 
pressure third-party regulated entities into refraining from nonexpressive 
activity and disassociating from a plaintiff crossed the line from persuasion into 
impermissible coercion and retaliation. In other words, Vullo is entitled to 
qualified immunity because the effect of her alleged coercion of and retaliation 
against these regulated entities on the NRA's speech is significantly more 
attenuated here than in the cases cited above. We proceed by applying the defense 
separately to the NRA's impermissible coercion and retaliation theories. 
1. Impermissible Coercion 
The NRA alleges that Vullo engaged in unlawful coercion when she 
used her regulatory power to pressure insurance companies and banks into 
cutting business ties with the NRA. Vullo, however, allegedly targeted only 
entities over which she had regulatory oversight and pursued only concededly 

mandate does not include setting gun-control policy," App'x at 146 ¶ 27, it does include 
enforcing state insurance law, see id. at 145-46 ¶¶ 24-27. 

illegal, nonexpressive activity. We find that Vullo is entitled to qualified 
immunity on this theory because, until Vullo II, no case had clearly established 
that a regulator could indirectly infringe the First Amendment rights of one 
entity (the NRA) by coercing third-party associates (the insurers) into refraining 
from nonexpressive, nonspeech activity (writing certain NRA-endorsed policies). 
At best, the existing case law before Vullo II addressed only coercive 
conduct aimed at expressive activity, either through the speaker or some conduit 
for the speaker. Bantam Books was literally about banning books -- the regulator 
in that case unlawfully coerced a publisher's distributors into removing certain 
books and publications from circulation. 372 U.S. at 62-64. Similarly, in Rattner, 
the village trustee's letter unlawfully coerced a local newspaper into removing a 
local man's advertisement critical of the local government. 930 F.2d at 209-10. 
And in Okwedy, the borough president's letter unlawfully coerced a billboard 
company into taking down a controversial billboard paid for by a local church 
and its pastor. 333 F.3d at 341-44. In each of these cases, the nexus between the 
defendant's coercive conduct and the eventual infringement of the plaintiff's First 
Amendment rights was clear -- because the third party was at least a conduit for 
the expression sponsored or requested by the plaintiff, coercing the third party 

into limiting or ceasing those activities also meant limiting or terminating the 
plaintiff's speech and expression. The conduct sought to stop the speech itself. 
After all, a book publisher will clearly have trouble disseminating its 
speech if a regulator has coerced its distributor into stopping the circulation of its 
books. See Bantam Books, 372 U.S. at 62-64. Private citizens and public entities, 
too, would struggle to express their political views if officials used their influence 
to coerce others into refusing to publish those views. See Rattner, 930 F.2d at 206-
07; Okwedy, 333 F.3d at 344. That precedent thus made clear that "[a]lthough an 
individual has no right to force a private publication to air his political views, a 
government does not have license to forbid the publication to air those views." 
Rattner, 930 F.2d at 208 (citations omitted) (emphasis added). 
This case falls decidedly outside that line of precedent. Here, 
although Vullo is alleged to have coerced third parties who dealt with the NRA, 
those third parties were not disseminating speech on the NRA's behalf or 
otherwise engaging in expressive activity. As Justice Jackson pointed out, "[t]he 
NRA does not contend that its (concededly unlawful) insurance products offered 
through those business relationships were themselves 'speech,' akin to a 
billboard [(as in Okwedy)], a television ad, or a book [(as in Bantam Books)]." Vullo 

II, 602 U.S. at 202 (Jackson, J., concurring). Thus, the nexus between coercion and 
infringement is not clear here. Unlike the plaintiffs in Bantam Books, Okwedy, and 
Rattner, the NRA does not allege that Vullo targeted the means through which 
the NRA was actually engaging in expressive activity. They do not contend, for 
example, "that Vullo pressured the printer of American Rifleman (a longstanding 
NRA periodical) to stop printing the magazine, or coerced a convention center 
into canceling the NRA's annual meeting." Id. Instead, the NRA alleges that 
Vullo infringed its First Amendment rights in a much more attenuated manner: 
Vullo coerced insurance companies into "terminat[ing] longstanding, beneficial 
business relationships with the NRA," which allegedly had the eventual effect of 
"depriv[ing] [it] of basic bank-depository services, corporate insurance coverage, 
and other financial services," thereby making it difficult for the NRA to maintain 
its " corporate existence" and pursue "its advocacy mission." App'x at 136. 
Those extra causal steps between coercion and infringement mean 
that traditional coercion cases present "an awkward fit with the facts of this case." 
Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 202 (Jackson, J., concurring) (emphasis omitted); see also id. 
("[T]he effect of Vullo's alleged coercion of regulated entities on the NRA's 
speech is significantly more attenuated here than in Bantam Books or most decisions 

applying it." (emphasis added)). In other words, we can surmise only that a 
reasonable officer in Vullo's position likely would have thought that her conduct 
-- which targeted regulated entities for concededly illegal, nonexpressive 
activities and only indirectly affected the NRA -- was permissible. 10 Accordingly, 
the existing precedent did not adequately define the contours of the First 
Amendment right at issue such that Vullo would have been on notice that her 
specific conduct violated it. See Semple, 963 F.3d at 274.

10 S tanding alone, the conceded illegality of the affinity insurance programs 
certainly "does not excuse Vullo from allegedly employing coercive threats to stifle gun-
promotion advocacy." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 196. We nevertheless apply qualified 
immunity here because, in addition to the conceded illegality of those programs, Vullo 
is not alleged to have dealt directly with the NRA or to have targeted the NRA's own 
speech activity. Taken together, these allegations place the conduct in this case 
decidedly outside the scope of the impermissible coercion cases described above. 
11 T he out-of-circuit authorities relied upon by the NRA fall short of that mark as 
well. See NRA Oct. 1, 2024 Ltr., ECF No. 177, at 1 (citing Josephson v. Ganzel, 115 F.4th 
771 (6th Cir. 2024)); NRA Nov. 1, 2024 Ltr., ECF No. 186, at 1 (citing Backpage.com, LLC v. 
Dart, 807 F.3d 229 (7th Cir. 2015), cert. denied, 580 U.S. 816 (2016)). As the NRA 
concedes, Josephson involved retaliation, and not coercion, by state officials, and, in any 
event, the case centered on allegations that those officials retaliated directly against a 
professor by firing him for his speech activity. See 115 F.4th at 777-82. As a case 
involving direct retaliation, Josephson cannot clearly establish any right prohibiting the 
indirect coercion at issue in this case. Backpage presents a closer call, but it is best 
understood as inapposite for the same reason that Bantam Books, Rattner, and Okwedy 
are: it involved a more direct incursion on speech. There, although the official coerced 
credit card companies into cutting off business ties with the plaintiff, the precise 
method was aimed directly at limiting speech because it consisted of removing 
consumers' ability to purchase ads on the plaintiff website's platform. See 807 F.3d at 
230 ("The Sheriff of Cook County . . . demand[ed] that firms such as Visa and 
MasterCard prohibit the use of their credit cards to purchase any ads on Backpage, 

The NRA correctly notes that the "result [in Vullo II] flowed from 
Bantam Books." NRA Supp. Br., ECF No. 143, at 4. Indeed, the Supreme Court 
emphasized that an official may not engage in "conduct that, viewed in context, 
could be reasonably understood to convey a threat of adverse government action 
in order to punish or suppress [a] plaintiff's speech." Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 191. But 
under the qualified immunity analysis, general pronouncements of law are not 
sufficient to "clearly establish" a right. Although "[a] court need not have passed 
on the identical course of conduct in order for its illegality to be 'clearly 
established,'" Williams v. Greifinger, 97 F.3d 699, 703 (2d Cir. 1996), the Supreme 
Court has "repeatedly told courts . . . not to define clearly established law at a 
high level of generality," al-Kidd, 563 U.S. at 742. Instead, the dispositive 
question is "whether the violative nature of particular conduct is clearly 
established" by existing precedent that has "placed the statutory or constitutional 
question beyond debate." Id. at 741-42. 
That is not the case here. A reasonable officer in Vullo's position 
would not have been on notice, at the time of her conduct, that such conduct 

since the ads might be for illegal sex-related products or services, such as prostitution."). 
Backpage thus does not clearly establish the particular right at issue in this case -- 
although the First Amendment violation against the plaintiff was similarly indirect, the 
incursion on speech was much more direct. 

violated the NRA's First Amendment rights. See Ziglar, 582 U.S. at 152 (qualified 
immunity applies "if a reasonable officer might not have known for certain that 
the conduct was unlawful"). Given that even this Court erred in its merits 
conclusion in Vullo I, it would make little sense to hold that a reasonable officer 
in Vullo's position should have known -- in 2017 or 2018 -- that her conduct 
violated the NRA's First Amendment rights. See Terebesi v. Torreso, 764 F.3d 217, 
233 (2d Cir. 2014) ("It is difficult to ask that a [defendant] identify clearly 
established law that three judges of this Court could not find."); cf. Mandala v. 
NTT Data, Inc., 88 F.4th 353, 360 (2d Cir. 2023) (holding that appellant was 
entitled to file an amended complaint because dismissal of the original complaint 
was affirmed over "vigorous dissent," and a petition for rehearing en banc was 
denied over the objection of five circuit judges). "[A] reasonable officer is not 
required to foresee judicial decisions that do not yet exist," Kisela v. Hughes, 584 
U.S. 100, 107 (2018), and so Vullo was not required to foresee that the Supreme 
Court would rule as it did in Vullo II. 
In summary, qualified immunity on the NRA's coercion theory is 
proper because, although Bantam Books and the cases applying it made clear that 
coercion with the aim of suppressing speech is unlawful generally, they did not 

make clear the more particularized application of that principle here -- where the 
allegedly coerced party was not itself a publisher or conduit of speech. 
A reasonable officer in Vullo's shoes "might not have known for certain that the 
[challenged coercive] conduct was unlawful," Ziglar, 582 U.S. at 152 (emphasis 
added), because Bantam Books and the cases applying it did not put the question 
"beyond debate," al-Kidd, 563 U.S. at 741. Vullo is thus entitled to qualified 
immunity on the NRA's First Amendment coercion claim. 
2. Retaliation 
The NRA also alleges that Vullo engaged in unlawful retaliation 
when she pursued investigations and enforcement actions against the NRA's 
business partners. But again, qualified immunity is proper here because the 
nexus between the alleged retaliation and the alleged eventual infringement of 
the NRA's First Amendment rights is too attenuated. Specifically, although the 
SAC repeatedly alleges that Vullo retaliated against the NRA for its speech 
activity, see App'x at 136, 143 ¶ 19, 154 ¶ 48, 167 ¶ 80, 169 ¶ 91, 171-72 ¶ 101, the 
reality is that the SAC alleges only that Vullo punished the NRA's business 
associates to punish the NRA for its speech. The route from alleged retaliation to 

eventual infringement is thus circuitous and indirect, and insufficient to have put 
Vullo on notice that her acts would violate First Amendment rights. 
At the time of Vullo's conduct, no precedent had clearly established 
that indirect retaliation of the kind at issue in this case was unlawful. At most, 
our existing retaliation cases had addressed only instances in which a defendant 
retaliated directly against the plaintiff and for the plaintiff's speech activity, whether 
by actively punishing or passively refusing to do something for the plaintiff. 12 

12 See, e.g., Tanvir, 120 F.4th at 1053 (federal agents allegedly retaliated against 
plaintiffs by pretextually placing or retaining them on the government's "No Fly List" 
because they refused to serve as government informants within Muslim communities); 
Montero, 890 F.3d at 390-92 (city and police officials allegedly retaliated against an 
officer and union official by transferring him to a less desirable unit and initiating 
pretextual investigations against him because he criticized management decisions by 
the police officials at union meetings); Matusick v. Erie Cnty. Water Auth., 757 F.3d 31, 36-
38 (2d Cir. 2014) (a state agency and its officials allegedly retaliated against a white 
employee by assaulting, harassing, and firing him because he had a romantic 
relationship with a black woman); Garcia v. Hartford Police Dep't, 706 F.3d 120, 123 (2d 
Cir. 2013) (per curiam) (police officials allegedly retaliated against an officer by failing 
to promote him and instigating several investigations into his conduct because he spoke 
to the press about an incident involving excessive force by police officers against a 
Hispanic citizen); Anemone, 629 F.3d at 99 (state agency officials allegedly retaliated 
against an employee by taking a series of adverse employment actions against him, 
including termination, because he spoke out against potential corruption within the 
agency); Faghri v. Univ. of Conn., 621 F.3d 92, 94-96 (2d Cir. 2010) (school officials 
allegedly retaliated against a dean by firing him because he criticized university leaders 
for mismanagement of funds and other issues); Mandell v. County of Suffolk, 316 F.3d 368, 
374-76, 383 (2d Cir. 2003) (police officials allegedly retaliated against an officer by 
involuntarily transferring him and refusing to promote him on several occasions 
because he gave a public interview in which he criticized the department); Smith, 147 
F.3d at 92-93 (local officials allegedly retaliated against a government employee by 

Those cases do not address a sufficiently close analogue to the current situation -- 
one in which a plaintiff alleges an indirect violation of its First Amendment 
rights because the defendant exerted pressure relating to the nonexpressive 
activities of third parties with whom the plaintiff dealt. That distinction is 
arguably a narrow one, but it is nevertheless determinative, especially here, 
where a regulator dealt directly with regulated entities, and applicable state laws 
were undeniably violated. 
In sum, the various cases addressing unlawful retaliation did not 
provide the requisite guidance clearly establishing that Vullo could not engage in 
the conduct at issue in this case. Because the available cases did not place the 
question "beyond debate," al-Kidd, 563 U.S. at 741, reasonable officials in Vullo's 
position likely would not have understood that they were engaging in 
impermissible law enforcement, nor would they "have 'known for certain that 
[Vullo's] conduct was unlawful' under then-existing precedent." Lamont, 970 

criminally prosecuting him on false charges because he publicly exposed corruption 
within an agency); Blue v. Koren, 72 F.3d 1075, 1078-80 (2d Cir. 1995) (state agency 
officials allegedly retaliated against a local nursing home through selective and rigorous 
enforcement of regulations because the nursing home prevailed in a prior proceeding); 
Rodriguez v Phillips, 66 F.3d 470, 478 (2d Cir. 1995) (corrections officer allegedly 
retaliated against plaintiff by reporting him for behavior that led to the plaintiff's 
placement in administrative segregation because the plaintiff once verbally defended an 
inmate whom the officer was disciplining). 

F.3d at 187 (quoting Ziglar, 582 U.S. at 152) (emphasis added). Qualified 
immunity on the NRA's retaliation claim is therefore proper. 
CONCLUSION 
We hold that qualified immunity on the NRA's First Amendment 
coercion and retaliation claims is appropriate in this case because of the 
markedly attenuated link between facially valid law enforcement against a third-
party associate and an infringement of a plaintiff's First Amendment rights.13 
Accordingly, we REVERSE the district court's order denying Vullo's motion to 
dismiss on the basis of qualified immunity, and we REMAND the case for the 
district court to enter judgment dismissing the remaining claims against her. 

13 The district court previously held that Vullo is entitled to absolute immunity on 
the NRA's selective enforcement claim. Cuomo, 525 F. Supp. 3d at 400. On remand, 
Vullo argues that this Court should reject the NRA's attempt "to fold [those] allegations 
about the enforcement actions . . . into its surviving First Amendment theories" by 
applying absolute immunity on the NRA's First Amendment claims to the extent they 
are predicated on similar allegations of selective enforcement. Vullo Supp. Br., ECF No. 
142, at 12-13. Because the issue of absolute immunity as to the NRA's First Amendment 
claims was not addressed below, and because we hold in any event that Vullo is 
entitled to qualified immunity on the NRA's First Amendment claims, we need not rule, 
and decline to rule, on this issue. See Wood v. Kesler, 323 F.3d 872, 881 n.13 (11th Cir. 
2003) ("Because [defendant] is entitled to qualified immunity, we need not address 
absolute immunity."); see also Vullo II, 602 U.S. at 195 n.5 (“[B]ecause Vullo did not raise 
this defense below with respect to the First Amendment claim . . . the Court declines to 
consider that argument here in the first instance.”).