PRECEDENTIAL

UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT
____________

No. 18-3549
____________

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

v.

STEVEN FISHOFF,
Appellant

On Appeal from the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey
(D. C. Criminal No. 3-15-cr-00586-001)
District Judge: Honorable Michael A. Shipp

Submitted under Third Circuit LAR 34.1(a)
on July 8, 2019

Before: MCKEE, ROTH and RENDELL, Circuit Judges

(Opinion filed: January 30, 2020)

Daniel T. Brown

Murphy & McGonigle
1001 G Street, NW
Seventh Floor
Washington, DC 20001

Counsel for Appellant

Mark E. Coyne
John F. Romano
Office of United States Attorney
970 Broad Street
Room 700
Newark, NJ 07102

Counsel for Appellee

O P I N I ON

ROTH, Circuit Judge:

Under Section 32 of the Securities Exchange Act, a
defendant who violates a Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule or regulation but proves that he “had no knowledge of such rule or regulation” i s not subject to imprisonment.1 The rule is inte nded to protect laypersons

1 15 U.S.C. § 78ff(a).

who commit technical violations. 2 This case requires us t o determine t he precise burden on a defen dant who wishes to use the so-called “non-imprisonment defense.” We hold that a defendant can establish lack of knowledge and avoid imprisonment if he demonstrates, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he d id not know the s ubstance of the rule or regulation that he violated. Because appellant Steven Fishoff did not establish a lack of knowledge of the rule t hat he pled guilty to violating and because his other procedural arguments fail, we will affirm the judgment of the District Court.

I
Fishoff began trading securities in the early 1990s. He was a skilled trader and eventually quit his job in the clothing manufacturing sector to trade full -time. He initially traded in partnership with a “backer,” i.e., an investor who provided the capital for his tra ding activity . By 2009, he had earned enough money to set up his own firm, Featherwood Capital , Inc. At Featherwood, he had one full-time employee and also worked with several independent contractors. He controlled accounts that yielded pro fits between $2 and $5 million per year. Despite his su ccesses, Fishoff n either had any formal training in n or took any courses on the securities markets, regulations, or compliance. Nor did he ever hold a securities or other pro fessional license. H e operated Featherwood without any expert legal or regulatory advice.

2 See United States v. Lilley, 291 F. Supp. 989, 992 (S.D. Tex. 1968) (citing Report of the Joint Conference Committee, 78 Cong. Rec. 10263 (1934)); see also 78 Cong. Rec. 8 295-96 (1934) (statement of Sen. Steiwer).

One of Fishoff’s practices was short -selling a
company’s stock in anticipation of the company making a secondary offering. Short-selling is the sale of a security that the sel ler has borrowed with the belief that the price of the security will drop. This enables the seller to make a profit by buying back the stock at a lower price before returning it . Secondary offerings, i.e., when a public company i ssues and sells new shares to raise money , can c ause the company’s share price to decrease because the new shares dilute the value of existing shares. Not surprisingly, many traders and market researchers try to predict when a company will make a secondary offering by, fo r example , forecasting when a company will need an influx of cash. In order to make such a forecast, a trader will use public financial disclosures or watch for updated shelf registration statements.3

Although secondary offerings are confide ntial, a
company, through its underwriter, may contact potentia l buyers to assess interest in the offering. Different investment banks, acting as underwriters , take different approaches in authorizing their salespeople to describe the subject company and its market capitalization. H owever, when a salesperson provides confidenti al inform ation, such as the name of the

3 Short-selling can artificially depre ss a stoc k’s price. To ensure that secondary offerings reflect market forces, the SEC issued Rule 105 of Regulation M, 17 C.F.R. § 242.105, which generally pro hibits the purchase of securities in second ary offerings if the purchaser engaged in short -selling of that stock within a five -day period before the offering . Although Rule 105 is not at issue here, it is the subject of certain claims in a related SEC case. SEC v. Fishoff, No. 13-cv-3725-MAS- DEA (D.N.J.) (filed June 3, 2015).

issuing company and the pricing and timing of the offering, the recipient of this informa tion is considered to be “over the wall” or “OTW” and is ba rred by relevant law, including the SEC’s Rule 10b-5-2, from trading the issuer’s securities or disclosing the informat ion to an yone else before the offering is publicly announced. Otherwis e, the recipient w ill have an unfair advantage and be able to profit from the inside information, for ex ample by short -selling the stock and repurchasing it a fter the announc ement of the secondary offering, assuming the price has indeed dropped.

The crim inal insider trading activity at issue in this case relates to Fea therwood’s practice of rec eiving confidential information about impending secondary offerings, i.e. being brought ove r the wall, and short -selling based on that inside information. Two of Fishoff’s associates, Ronald Ch ernin and Steven Constantin, opened acc ounts at investment ban king firms a nd cultivated relationships with investment bankers i n order to receive solicit ations to invest in secondary offerings. Chernin and Constantin learned about specific seconda ry offerings from the investment banks and agreed to keep the information confidential. They then telephoned Fishoff and told him they were “ OTW” and had learned when a certain company was planning a secondary offering. Fishoff would short-sell the company’s shares, later profiting by purchasing t he shares after the announcement of the secondary offering , when t he price had fallen . Fishoff also shared the inside information with Paul Petrello, a lon gtime business associate, personal friend, and former colleague at Worldwide Capital, one of Fishoff’s early backers. Petrello similarly used the inside information to short-sell, and he and Fishoff split the trading profits. Petrello testified at his own plea hearing that F ishoff would send the first two letters of

the company’s stock trading symbol by text message and then tell him the last two letters by phone.4

In November 2015, Fishoff was charged in a fivecount Indictment including one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and four separate coun ts of securities fraud. He eventually pled guilty to Count 4, securities fraud in violati on of 15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78ff, 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5 (Rule 10b-5), and 18 U.S.C. § 2. His plea related to the trading of stock in Synergy Pharmaceuticals, Inc . As described in the plea agreement, in the government’s sentencing memorandum , and at the plea hearing , Chernin was solicited by phone to participate in Synergy’s confidentially marketed seco ndary offering and brought over the wall on April 30, 2012. He called Fishoff a few minutes later. Featherwood started s hort-selling Synergy sto ck later the same morning via Fishoff’s online trading account. The secondary offering was publicly an nounced on May 3, 201 2.

4 The government in its brief refers to Fishoff’s use of “coded language” to pass a long t he confi dential information to others. The government cites to the portion of the sentencing hearing transcript where the prosecution discussed Fishoff’s and Petrello ’s use of cod ed language , including the transmittal of stock symbols in fragments. Fishoff objected at the sentencing hearing that Petrello’s plea was not part of the record. However, because Fishoff did not object in his reply brief to the g overnment’s mention of th e same evidence (and in fact refers to Petre llo’s testimony o n other issues ), he has waived any objection to ou r c onsideration of that evidence. See United States v. Shaw , 891 F.3d 441, 45 5 n.17 (3d Ci r. 2018); Suarez-Valenzuela v. Holder , 714 F.3d 241, 248 -49 (4th Cir. 2013).

Fishoff stipulated that he and his asso ciates made b etween $1.5 and $3.5 million by short-selling Synergy stock based on the con fidential information regarding the upcoming secondary offering . Fishoff also stipulated that he had breached the duty of c onfidentiality and trust owed to the source of the insid e information and agreed that he h ad done so “willfully.”5

Fishoff’s sentencing took place on November 5, 2018.
In his sentencing mem orandum, Fishoff claimed that he had no knowledge of SEC Rule 10b 5-2 and was entitled to the affirmative defense against imprisonment pursuant to Section 32 of the Securities Exchange Act. The government, in its sentencing memorandum, requested a sentence within the Guidelines range of 46 to 57 months. At the sentencing hearing, the court as ked whether the parties had non - Guidelines objections to the Pre -Sentence Report. Fishoff’s attorney clarified that the c ourt was not referring to th e affirmative defense of Sect ion 32, and the c ourt agreed and said it would hear about that “ separate[ly].”6 The court proceeded to calculate the Guidelines range of Fisho ff’s sentence, denied Fishoff’s request for a departure, and heard Fishoff’s allocution. The court also hea rd argument from Fishoff’s counsel that a sentence of home confinement would be appropriate. Following a break, the court asked the parties if there were any clarifications for the record. Hearing none, the court proceeded to discuss the factors it needed to consider under 18 U .S.C. § 3553( a), granted a variance downward, and sentenced Fishoff to 30 months’ imprisonment. The government then moved t o dismiss the

5 S.A. 21 (Plea Hearing Tr. 21:11-12).
6 A131.

remaining counts, which the Court granted.

After the D istrict Court announc ed the sentence and
dismissed the remaining counts, Fishoff’s attorney reminded the court that it had not ad dressed its Section 32 a rgument on the non -imprisonment d efense. The court responded tha t it had “addressed all of the steps necessary for sentencing,” and when Fishoff’s attorney responded with an explanation of the affirmative defense and pointed to the relevant portion of the sentencing submission, the c ourt stated for the record that “[a]ny motion pursuant to Section 32 of th e Securities Exchange Act prohibiting imprisonment is h ereby denied in its en tirety.”7 Fishoff did not object. The next day, on November 6, the court issued a written order “for the sake of clarity” explaining that Fishoff had failed to establish that he was a layperson and failed to present evidence support ing his argument that he lacked knowledge of Rule 10b5-2.8

7 A184.
8 A18. Rul e 10b5-2 sets forth “a non-exclusive definition of circumstances” in which the misappropriation theory of Rule 10b-5 would apply. Under that theory, the defendant is not an insider but an outsi der who possesses inside information and owes a fid uciary duty to the sourc e. Ru le 10b5-2, which the SEC promulgated in 2000 to codify the Supre me Court’s decision in United States v. O’Hagan , provides guidance on such cases. United States v. Mc Phail, 831 F.3d 1, 5 (1st Cir. 2016) (citing United States v . O’Hagan, 521 U.S. 642 (1997)). Fishoff refers to Rule 10b5 -2 in his briefs, as does the District Court in it s order, while the government refers to Rule 10b -5. Secti on 78ff(a) makes clear that a defend ant must demonstrate a lack of knowledge of the rule he violated in order t o avail himself of the affirmative defense . Because

This appeal followed. Fishoff raises three main
arguments. First, he argues that the District Court violated Federal Rule of Criminal Proc edure 32 by failing t o make factual findings at sentenc ing an d improperly curtail ing his argument on the affirmative defense . Se cond, he argues t hat the government may not oppose his request on appeal because it was s ilent with respect to the affirmative defense in the course of t he proceed ings below . Third, he urges us to overturn the District Court’s ruling that he did not demonstrate a lack of knowledg e of the rul e he violated. We discuss each in turn.

Fishoff pled guilty to viol ating Rule 10b-5, the relevant rule in this case is Rule 10b-5. In any event, Rule 10b5-2 does not stand alone as a source of liability; as a special case of insider trading, it assumes the other relevant elements of t hat charge are pres ent. See 17 C.F.R . § 240. 10b5-2(a) (“This section shall apply to any violation of . . . § 240.10b-5 . . . .”); see also United States v. Knueppel , 293 F. Supp. 2d 199 , 2 04 (E.D.N.Y. 2003) (“Whether or not defendants knew that they faced potential prosecution under a theory labeled by lawyers as the ‘ misappropriation theory,’ they pled g uilty to [conspiracy to commi t securities fraud].”). For that r eason, defendants in misappropriation cases are simply charged with violating Rule 10b-5, e.g., United States v. Parigian, 824 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 2016) , or sometimes both Rule 10b-5 and Rule 10b5-2, e.g., United States v. Gansman, 657 F.3d 85, 90 (2d Cir. 2011). To the extent that Fishoff believed he needed to demonstrate only a lack of knowledge of the misappropriation theory, he was mistaken , and to the extent that the Di strict Court erred in this regard, any error is harmless.

II9
A
We fi rst address Fishoff ’s argument th at the District Court violated Rule 32. The purpose of Rule 32 is “threefold:
(1) to allow the defendant to present mitigating
circumstances, (2) to permit the defendant to present personal characteristics to ena ble the s entencing court to craft an individualized sentence, and (3) to preserve the appearance of fairness in the criminal justice system.”10

Fishoff relies on two separate subsections of this rule. First, Fishoff argues that th e District Cou rt failed to make factual findings on the record in violation of Rule 32(i)(3)(B), which requires the sentencing court, “for any . . . controverted matter,” to “rule on the dispute or d etermine that a ruling is unnecessary either bec ause the m atter will not affect sentencing, or because the court will not consider the matt er in sentencing.” The rule is “strictly en forced” and requi res the court to make express findin gs on disputed facts or to disclaim reliance upon disputed facts.11

Here, the District Court did not violate Rule

9 The District Court ha d jurisdiction pursuant to 18 U.S .C. § 3231. W e have jurisdiction pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § § 1291 and 3742(a).
10 United States v. Moreno , 809 F.3d 7 66, 777 (3d Cir. 2016) (internal quotation marks omitted).
11 United States v. Electrodyne Sys. Corp., 147 F.3d 250, 255 (3d Cir. 1998).

32(i)(3)(B) by failing to rule on the affirmative defense.12 First of all, th e Court did issue a clear ruling in response to Fishoff’s objection ,13 unlike in Uni ted States v. Electrodyne Systems Corp. , cited by Fishoff, where the record was “ [a]t best . . . ambiguous as to the district court ’s reliance upon the disputed matters. ”14 Fishof f al so relie s on United S tates v. Metro, but in that case, the court did not resolve a dispute about t he defendant ’s role in the schem e because it mistakenly considered the factual dispute to be moot, when it was in fact “very much alive.”15 Here, the Court ma de no

12 Our review of the District Court’s adherence to Rule 32 is plenary. United States v. Ward , 7 32 F.3d 175, 180 n.4 (3d Cir. 2013). T he government urges us to app ly plain error review. We are n ot persuaded. The government relies on United States v. F lores-Mejia, 759 F. 3d 253, 257 (3d Cir . 2014), in which we held that a defendant must raise any procedural objection to his sentence (such as a court ’s failure to give meaningful consideration to the defen dant’s substantive argume nt) after the sentence is pronounced. In that case, the parties argued for and against a variance but the court did not rule on it. The court then announced its sentence, at which point defense counsel did not object to the court’s failure to rule on the variance issue. Here, the District Court announced i ts sentence, Fishoff objected that the court had n ot addressed Se ction 32 , and the court ruled on the objection. In this manner, then, the court ruled on the affirmative defense.
13 A184 (“Any m otion pursuant to Section 32 of the
Securities Exchange A ct prohibiting imprisonment is hereby denied in its entirety.”). 14 147 F.3d 250, 255 (3d Cir. 1998). 15 882 F.3d 431, 442 (3d Cir. 2018).

such mistake.

Moreover, to the extent the Rule requires express
findings on the viability of the affirmative defense, we find a clear statement of the c ourt’s findings in its rejection of the defense. A s the Ninth Circuit held in United St ates v. Laurienti, by rejec ting the affirmative defense without providing specif ic reasons, the court “ necessarily found he knew of the [SEC] rule” he was charged with viol ating.16 Finally, even if there was error, it is eviden t from the c ourt’s November 6 ruling that any further explanation on the part of the court would not have c hanged the sentence it imposed . Thus, any error is harmless.

Second, F ishoff argues that the District Court
improperly curtailed his argument on the affirmative non - imprisonment defense at sentencing in violation of Rule 32(i)(4)(A). T hat subsection requires the court, “[b]efore imposing sentence,” to “provide the defendant’s attorn ey an opportunity to speak o n the defendant’s behalf” and “address

16 731 F.3d 967, 972 (9th Cir. 2013); see also United States v. Campbell, 295 F.3d 398, 406 (3d Cir. 2002) (holding that the district court fulfilled its ob ligation to make factual finding s on controverted matters by stating that the disputed portions of the presentence report w ere supported by a preponderance of the evidence); cf. United States v. Zehru ng, 714 F.3d 6 28, 632 (1st Cir. 2013) (sentencing court may “implicitly” resolve factual disputes when its statements and the sentence “show[] that the facts were decided in a pa rticular way ” as long as both the findings and the bas is for the findings are clear enough “to pe rmit effecti ve appellate review ” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

the defendant personally in order to pe rmit the defendant to speak or present any information to mitigate the sentence.”

We see no plain error violation of this su bsection of
Rule 32 .17 As an initial matter, t he sen tencing court “ has always retained the discretion to place certain restriction s on what may be presented during an allocution.”18 Here, Fishoff submitted a n extensiv e sentencin g memorandum, which included a section on the non -imprisonment defense, as well as 38 letters of support, a DVD, and a letter from Fishoff. A t the hearing, the court heard lengthy arguments from Fishoff ’s counsel, who at several points requested a sentence o f home confinement. The court addressed Fishoff personally an d Fishoff himself spoke at length. This case is unlike those relied upon by Fishoff, such as United States v. Ch apman, where the district court refused a continu ance so that th e defendant, who had mistakenly not been notified of the day of sentencing, cou ld gather le tters from family members and prepare for allocution. 19 This case is also unlike those in which we ha ve found error because the sentencing court infringed on the right of the defendant to allocute.20 Finally ,

17 Fishoff did not object at sen tencing that the c ourt was interfering with his right to present information . We thus review for plain error only. Moreno, 809 F.3d at 777.
18 Ward, 732 F.3d at 182; see also U.S.S.G. § 6A1.3 cmt. (“When a dispu te exists about any factor impor tant to the sentencing determinatio n, the court must ensure that the parties have an adequate opportunity to present relevant information. Written statements of co unsel or affidavit s of witnesses may be adequate under many circumstances.”). 19 915 F.3d 139, 144-47 (3d Cir. 2019).
20 E.g., Moreno, 809 F.3d 766.

it is clear from the November 6 ord er that oral argument on the affirmative defense would not have made a difference in Fishoff’s sentence . Thus, any error did not affect his substantial rights.21

We do not condone the pra ctice of telling defense
counsel that they will be permitted to argue for an affirmative defense at sentencing and then denying the defense without oral argument. Nevertheless, Fishoff was able to present his defense adequately, and the court’s ruling on it was sufficient. Furthermore, as d iscussed below, 22 Fishoff’s argum ents that he was entitled to the defense are not persuasive. For those reasons we hold that the court did not violate Rule 32.

B
We next address Fishoff’s argument t hat the
government was silent in the fa ce of his affirmati ve defense below an d therefore s hould, on appeal, not be permitted to argue agai nst it . Fishoff points out that the g overnment responded to other portions of his sentencing mem orandum, thereby demonstrating “that it was fully capable of advising” the court on m atters affecting sentencing, but that it failed to do so with respect to h is affirmative non -imprisonment defense. His argument fails for two reasons.

First, by requesting a sentence of i mprisonment within the Guidelines range of 46 to 57 months, the government was necessarily opposing Fishoff’s argument that he should not be sentenced to prison. As the g overnment poi nts out, it

21 See Fed. R. Crim. P. 52(b).
22 Infra Part II.C.

submitted its sentencing memorandum befo re Fishoff
submitted his; the c ourt d id not require or perm it
supplemental briefing before sentencing, merely t he filing of supplemental documents . Nor did the court elicit the government’s views on the matter at sentencing. To be sure, the government could have volunteered its posi tion at th e hearing. But even if the government d id not provide its explicit view on the matter, its request for a sentence of imprisonment clearly demonstrated its position—that Fishoff was not entitled to the defense.23

Second, as other circuits have made clear , when a
criminal defendant app eals, the government is “tasked, in effect, with defending the district co urt’s judgment.”24 This is so even when the government agree d to a sentencing adjustment that t he district court did not award.25 Although we have not addressed this exact issue, we hel d in U nited States v. Griswold that the government may defend the

23 The cases cited by Fishoff do not req uire a contrary result. In United States v. W eatherspoon, 696 F.3d 416 , 421-22 (3d Cir. 2012), we he ld that the government was barred fr om arguing for the first time on appeal that a defendant co uld not file a second moti on pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3582(c) (2). Here, by con trast, th e government necess arily oppo sed the motion. The second case, United Stat es v. Schiff, 602 F.3d 152 (3d Cir. 2010), is distinguishable because the government in that case took a position on appeal that contradicted several express statem ents it m ade below . There w ere no su ch express statements here.
24 United States v. Carbajal -Valdez, 874 F.3d 778, 786 (1st Cir. 2017).
25 Huff v. United States, 734 F.3d 600, 610 (6th Cir. 2013).

district court ’s factual finding with respect to a defendant ’s offense level even if the government stipulated to contrary facts in the plea negotiation.26 Here, the plea agreement explicitly reserved the government’s right (and Fishoff’s right) to take any position on appeal .27 Moreover, the government never agreed that the non -imprisonment defense applied.

For these reasons, Fishoff’s preclusion argument lacks
merit.
C
We turn , l ast, to Fi shoff’s argument that the D istrict Court erred in finding that he did no t meet his burden of demonstrating a lack of knowl edge of the substantive SEC Rule he ple d guilty to violating. We review th e District Court’s factual findings for clear error .28 In doing so, we do not find clear error simply because “there are two permissible views of the evidence.”29

We have not previously had occasion to interpret the
non-imprisonment defense of Section 32. Other circuits have done s o and we find their a nalyses helpful, especially the

26 57 F.3d 291, 298-99 (3d Cir. 1995).
27 Except th at neither sid e could argue on appeal that the sentencing court erred in accepting the factual stipulations.
28 United States v. Grier, 475 F.3d 556, 561 (3d Cir. 2007) (en banc).
29 Anderson v. City of Bessemer City, N.C., 470 U.S. 564, 574 (1985).

reasoning of the Eighth Circuit in United States v. Behre ns.30 In that case, the Eighth Circuit rejected the defendant’s view that the non -imprisonment defense is availa ble to one who shows that he did not know that the rule in question applied to his conduct (even i f he was aware of the rule). 31 The court also rejected th e government ’s view that th e nonimprisonment defense is only availa ble to a defendant who can show “a complete absence of knowledge ” of the rule ’s “very ex istence.”32 The court instead drew a mid dle line, based on the plain language of the statute, and held that defendants must show by a pr eponderance of the evidence “that they did not know the subst ance of t he SEC rule or regulation they allegedly violated, regardless of whether they understood its pa rticular application to their conduct.” 33 By requiring the defendant to demonstrate a lack of knowledge of the substance of the rule, the defense marks only a minor departure from th e traditional principle that ignor ance of the law is no excuse.34

30 713 F.3d 926 (8th Cir. 2013).
31 The Eighth Circuit found that such an interpretation would create a specific intent men s rea more app ropriate for, e.g., criminal tax cases, which run a higher risk of “ convicting individuals engaged in apparently innocent activ ity.” Id. at 931 ( quoting Bryan v. U nited States , 524 U.S. 184, 195 (1998)). 32 713 F.3d at 929.
33 Id. at 930, 932.
34 Id. at 9 31 (“This rul e protects fro m imprisonment individuals who truly are unaware of the substance of an SEC rule or regulati on, but it does no t go so far as to complete ly vitiate the principle that ignorance of the law is no defense.”); id. at 931-32 (“The purpose of the no-knowledge provision is

We agree with the Ei ghth Circuit ’s reasoning in
Behrens that a defendant who wishes t o qualify for t he nonimprisonment defense must d emonstrate, by a prepo nderance of the evidence, that he did not know the substance of the rule that he violated. I t is immateria l that a defe ndant does not know the exact number of the rule, and immaterial that th e defendant did not specifically intend to violate the rule.35

Applying this construction of the de fense to the case
before us, we find that Fishoff did not meet his burden . He offers four main pieces of evidence.

First, he maintains that “ there can be no presumpt ion that [he] would generally hav e knowledge of the SEC ’s technical rules ,” and that “[n]o layperson would generally know of Rule 1 0b5-2.”36 But Fishoff was a full -time trader who made his living by trading stocks. Even assuming a true layperson would not be aw are that insider trading is prohibited, which is a dub ious proposition, we cannot credit his claim to be a laype rson. He was an experien ced trader

certainly to ‘ soften[] the impact of the c ommon-law
presumption’ that ‘mistake of law is n o defense ’ . . . .” (quoting Cheek v. United States , 498 U.S. 192, 199, (1991)) (alterations in original)).
35 Cf. Lilley, 291 F. Supp. at 993 (holding that it is irrelevant that the defendant does not know “ the precise number or common name of the rule, the book and pag e where it was to be found, or the date upon which it was promulgated”).
36 As explained above, the rule in question is the rule to which Fishoff pled guilty to violating, which here is Rule 10b-5 and not the rule setting forth the misapprop riation theory (Rul e 10b5-2). See supra n.8.

with years in the business . He had performed hundreds of thousands of trades .37 We recognize that the illicit trades constituted a tiny fraction of the trades com pleted by Featherwood. But the she er volume of normal, non-violative trading activit y carried out or overseen by Fishoff merely throws into sharper relief the few trades tha t re lied on confidential inside information. Based on his trading activity, Fishoff cannot plausibly claim, without more, that he was not a professiona l trader. Thus, he does not benefit from a ny presumption that he was unaware of insider trading rules.

Second, Fishoff points out that he has neve r held a
securities license, worked a s a reg istered broker/dealer, studied for any securities licensing exam, or received training in the securities laws. This evidence is an extens ion of his claimed non-professional status. We find it unpersuasive for the same reasons. His lack of licensure or training carries less weight in light of the fact that he made his living by trading securities; it is implausible that a professional t rader like Fishoff would not know ab out Rule 10b- 5.38 We find no clear error in the D istrict Court’s decision that t his evidence does not meet the preponderance standard.

Third, Fishoff refers to the emails he and his associates

37 United States v. D’Honau, 459 F.2d 73, 75 (9th C ir. 1972) (“Appellant was expe rienced in the stock market ; it is a remote possibility that he did not know the actions pro hibited by 17 C.F.R. 240.10b-5 were contrary to law.”).
38 Other courts have similarly denied the de fense to
individuals who claimed not to have “academic” or
“professional” experience. See Knueppel, 293 F. Supp. 2d at 204-05.

received from investment banks containing form
confidentiality agreements and points out that these emails do not mention Rul e 10b -5. This argument is meritless. The emails clearly s tated that they contain ed confidential information, the use of w hich was restricted . If anything, these form confidentiality agre ements should have bee n red flags for Fishoff that he was not permitted to trad e based on the confidential information. They certainly d o not demonstrate his lack of knowledge , much less meet the preponderance standard.

Fourth, Fishoff points out that he became aware of
Rule 10539 in September 2013, after the SEC brought a case against 23 indivi duals based on that rule . The head of Featherwood’s intro ducing broker, Montecito, sent Fishoff copies of Rule 105 and Reg SHO on October 2, 2 013 (over one year after the Synergy trades d escribed in Count 4) . Once he became aware of Rule 105, he realiz ed some o f his short-selling had violated that rule and took e fforts to ensure future compliance by directing his associates to stop s hortselling after being soli cited by underwriters. But Rule 105 is not at issue here. Fishoff claims that he did not know that the government would consider the short-selling to violate Rule 10b-5 in addition to violating Rule 105, but that is not enough to qualify for the defense .40 T he fact that he learned of R ule 105, realized the SEC was able to enforce it, and sought to avoid such enforcement of that rule does not demonstrate that he did not know of Rule 10b-5. The best inference one could draw from this evidence is that Fishoff lacked kn owledge of

39 17 C.F.R. § 242.105, “Short selling in connection w ith a public offering.”
40 Behrens, 713 F.3d at 929-30.

the substance of Rule 105 before October 2013. But neither his lack of knowledge of Rule 105 nor his attempts to avoid a Rule 105 enforcement action have any bearing o n his knowledge of a separate rule.

In short, none of Fishoff ’s proffered e vidence
demonstrates his lack of knowledge by a preponderance of the evidence. In addition, there is enough countervailing evidence on the other side of the equation to conclude that the District Court did not clearly err. First, there is the fact that he was an experienced profe ssional, disc ussed above. Second, the government points out that Fishoff told his associates to not ify hi m of the co nfidential information by phone and conveyed the same information to Petrello using a code. Fishoff does not dispute the g overnment’s characterization of these communic ations. His att empts to conceal the scheme suggests that he was aware that it was wrong and could support an inference that he knew of a prohibition against trading on the confidential information.41 Finally, his reluctance to hire complianc e personnel, despite advice from friends who were securities pro fessionals, indicates that on some level Fishoff was aware he was violating a securities rule —or at l east risking a violation of a securities rule and choosing to disregard that risk.

In sum, we h old that the District Court did not err in ruling that Fishoff did not establish by a preponderance of the

41 United States v. Reyes , 577 F.3d 1069, 1081- 82 (9th Cir. 2009) (based on evidence of “conceal[ment]” and “directing employees to not communicate . . . over the phone or ema il,” the dis trict court appropriate ly found that the defendant had not met her burden of establishing lack of knowledge).

evidence a lack of knowledge of Rule 10b-5.

III
We will affirm the judgment of sentence of the District Court.