FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY 
OFFICE OF HEARING OFFICERS 

DEPARTMENT OF ENFORCEMENT, 

Complainant, 

v. 

BRIAN SANDERS 
(CRD No. 2743309), 

Respondent. 

Disciplinary Proceeding 
No. 2009016159111 

Hearing Officer— LOM 

HEARING PANEL DECISION 

May 4, 2015 

Respondent, Brian Sanders, the Chief Compliance Officer of his 
FINRA member firm, failed to reasonably supervise the activities of 
registered representatives at the firm in violation of NASD Rule s 
3010(a) and (b), NASD Rule 2110, and FINRA Rule 2010. For this 
misconduct he is barred from associating with any FINRA member 
firm in any capacity. 

Respondent also failed to report numerous customer complaints to 
FINRA in violation of NASD Rules 3070 and 2110, and FINRA Rule 
2010. F or this misconduct he would be suspended for one year from 
acting in a principal capacity at any FINRA member firm and fined 
$25,000. In light of the bar, however, these sanctions are not imposed. 

Appearances 

Jonathan Golomb and Edwin T. Aradi, Rockville, Maryland, representing the Department of 
Enforcement. 

Brian Sanders, Wading River, New York, representing himself. 

I. NATURE OF THE CASE 

The Department of Enforcement (“Enforcement”) for the Financial Industry Regulatory 
Authority (“FINRA”), a self-regulatory organization for the securities industry, brought this 
disciplinary proceeding against Respondent, Brian Sanders, alleging two causes of action against 
him. The Complaint alleges violations of NASD Rules 3010(a) and (b) relating to supervision, 
NASD Rule 3070 relating to reporting customer complaints to FINRA, and NASD Rule 2110 

and FINRA Rule 2010, which both require members and their associated persons to observe high 
standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade.1 

First, Enforcement charged that Sanders, as the Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) of his 
FINRA member firm, iTRADEdirect.com (“iTrade” or the “Firm”), failed to reasonably 
supervise registered representatives at the Firm. Enforcement alleged that Sanders failed to 
respond to red flags indicating the strong possibility that the Firm’s registered representatives 
were opening accounts without authorization, engaging in unauthorized trading, and also 
engaging in excessive trading. Enforcement also alleged that he failed to subject registered 
representatives to heightened supervision when they should have been under the Firm’s written 
supervisory procedures (“WSPs”). According to the Complaint, 13 brokers met the Firm’s 
criteria for heightened supervision, but Sanders failed to subject at least a dozen to heightened 
supervision. 

Second, Enforcement charged that Sanders failed to report numerous customer 
complaints to FINRA that he was required to report. 

As discussed below, the Hearing Panel finds that Sanders committed the violations and 
imposes sanctions. 

II. PROCEEDING 

Initially, the charges against Sanders were part of a Complaint that included separate 
claims against three other respondents, Nathalo Menendez, DP, and Anthony Spagnolo. The 
three other respondents were registered representatives of the Firm who were charged with 
various sales practice violations, including unauthorized and excessive trading. 

Menendez defaulted and did not defend the charges against him. DP died prior to the 
hearing, and the claims against him were dismissed. The third respondent, Anthony Spagnolo, 
III, went to hearing along with Sanders. Spagnolo was represented by counsel and presented a 
defense. 

Sanders represented himself, vigorously denying liability throughout the pre-hearing 
phase of the proceeding and in his opening statement at the beginning of the hearing.
2 After 

1 FINRA is responsible for regulatory oversight of securities firms and associated persons who do business with the 
public. It was formed in July 2007 by the consolidation of NASD and the regulatory arm of the New York Stock 
Exchange. FINRA is developing a new “Consolidated Rulebook” of FINRA Rules that includes NASD Rules. The 
first phase of the new Consolidated Rulebook became effective on December 15, 2008. See FINRA Regulatory 
Notice 08-57 (Oct. 2008), http://www.finra.org/industry/notices/08-57. Because the Complaint in this case was filed 
after December 15, 2008, FINRA’s procedural Rules apply to the proceeding. The applicable FINRA and/or NASD 
Conduct Rules are those that existed when the conduct at issue occurred. Both NASD and FINRA Rules appl y to 
the conduct at issue in this matter because the conduct extended over a period of time when first NASD and then 
FINRA Rules applied. FINRA’s Rules (including NASD Rules) are available at www.finra.org/industry/finra-rules. 
2 The hearing was held for two days in October 2014 (FINRA Disciplinary Proceeding No. 2009016159110). This 
decision refers to the transcript as “Hearing Tr.” and cites the relevant page or pages. A reference to the transcript 
includes a parenthetical identifying the witness or speaker. For example, Sanders gave testimony on behalf of 
Spagnolo, and that testimony is cited “Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 444-95.” 

Sanders completed a lengthy opening statement, the Hearing Officer told him he would need to 
repeat some of what he said when he testified and could not merely rely on the opening 
statement.3 He then announced, however, that he did not intend to present any evidence in his 
defense. He stated, “I have no intention of going through this whole hearing process.” 4 He 
indicated that he felt he had gotten his “side of the story” on the record by making his opening 
statement.5 He said, “This is not a good investment of my time or money. I just really have no 
interest in this at all. But I did want to get the truth out there, and I’m done.”6 

Enforcement immediately moved that Sanders be deemed in default. The Hearing 
Officer warned Sanders that if he left the hearing and was deemed in default it would be 
appropriate to find that the charges against him were true.
7 The Hearing Officer told Sanders he 
could, instead, continue participating in the proceeding. Sanders reiterated that he thought that 
would be “pointless” and a “waste of time.”8 He confirmed that he understood the consequences 
of failing to participate in the proceeding any further.9 Despite that understanding, he left the 
hearing without presenting any evidence in his defense.10 However, Sanders later returned to the 
hearing to testify on behalf of Spagnolo. He was cross-examined in that context. 

After the hearing with respect to the charges against Spagnolo concluded, the Hearing 
Officer determined not to treat Sanders as having defaulted because he had actively defended 
himself and had participated in the hearing. The Hearing Officer issued an Order giving both 
Enforcement and Sanders additional time to supplement the record with respect to the charges 
against him.
11 The Order also severed the case against Sanders from the other case and gave 
Sanders’ case a new disciplinary proceeding number. After the severance, Enforcement 
submitted two declarations accompanied by evidentiary materials and a memorandum in support 
of the charges against Sanders. Sanders did not submit anything.

Pursuant to FINRA Rule 9221(c), the Hearing Panel has determined the claims against 
Sanders on the record as to him. That record includes everything in the record from the case 
prior to the severance of the charges against Sanders (Disciplinary Proceeding No. 

3 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 36-53. 
4 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 54. 
5 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 54. 
6 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 54. 
7 Hearing Tr. (Golomb, Sanders, and Hearing Officer) 54-56. 
8 Hearing Tr. (Hearing Officer and Sanders) 55. 
9 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 56. 
10 Hearing Tr. (discussion among counsel, Sanders, and Hearing Officer) 56-64. 
11 The full title of the Order is “Order Setting Schedule For Supplementing Record In Sanders’ Case.” 
12 Enforcement’s submissions were the following: Department Of Enforcement’s Memorandum In Support Of 
Charges” (referred to here as “Enf. Mem.”), “Declaration Of Michael DiTrapani” (referred to here as “DiTrapani 
Decl.”), and “Declaration Of Wendoly Velez.” These materials refer to exhibits that Enforcement uses to support 
the charges. Some of the exhibits were submitted by Enforcement prior to severance of the Sanders case on 
November 13, 2014 (identified by the prefix “CX”), and others were new (identified by the prefix “SX”). 

2009016159110), along with Enforcement’s submission after severance (Disciplinary 
Proceeding No. 2009016159111). The record includes the pleadings, Sanders’ opening 
statement at the hearing (which is treated as the equivalent of a brief containing argument and as 
a proffer of what he would have testified), Sanders’ sworn testimony at the hearing on behalf of 
Spagnolo, and Enforcement’s submissions and exhibits supplementing the record with regard to 
the claims against Sanders. Those exhibits include, among other things, excerpts from sworn 
testimony that Sanders gave in on-the-record interviews (“OTRs”) in connection with related 
matters. 

III. FINDINGS 

 A. Jurisdiction 

Sanders is no longer employed in the industry. However, FINRA still has jurisdiction to 
bring this proceeding against him. The two requirements imposed by FINRA’s By-Laws (Art. 
V, Section 4) both exist here. First, the Complaint was filed less than two years after the 
effective date of termination of his last registration with a FINRA member. His termination date 
was October 12, 2012, and the Complaint was filed on December 30, 2013. Second, the 
Complaint charges Sanders with misconduct committed while he was registered or associated 
with a FINRA member firm, in this case while he was registered with iTrade. 

 B. Sanders 

Sanders was registered with five firms between May 1996 and October 2012. One of 
those firms was iTrade, where he was registered from June 2005 until May 2010.
13 While at 
iTrade, Sanders was the Firm’s Chief Compliance Officer. He also managed its Long Island 
office where it conducted the bulk of its business. He was the supervising principal for a large 
number (sometimes the majority) of the registered representatives in that office.14 

Sanders has been the subject of two FINRA disciplinary proceedings, which he settled. 
The first involved charges brought against him when he was at another firm, prior to joining 
iTrade, for supervisory failures related to the prevention and detection of unauthorized trading. 
Pursuant to a March 2007 settlement of those charges, Sanders was suspended from acting in a 
principal capacity for ten business days and fined (jointly and severally with his then firm and 
another individual respondent) $17,500.
15 The second proceeding involved charges for conduct 
while he was at iTrade. The charges were that he failed to conduct adequate due diligence in 
connection with an initial public offering by iTrade’s parent company. Pursuant to a November 
2007 settlement, Sanders was suspended from acting in a principal capacity for ten business days 
and fined (jointly and severally with the Firm) $10,000.

13 CX-1, at 5-6. 
14 SX-2 and SX-3 (Complaint and Order Accepting Offer Of Settlement in Disciplinary Proceeding No. 
E07200406101); Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 444-45. 
15 Matter No. E072004006101; SX-2 and SX-3. 
16 Matter No. 2005001745201; CX-1, at 15-16; SX-1. 

C. Investigation 

This proceeding against Sanders has its genesis in the 2008 and 2009 cycle examinations 
of iTrade. The examination staff identified issues and referred them to Enforcement for further 
investigation. Among the concerns were a high number of cancelled trades and a high number of 
exception reports indicative of possible excessive trading. Ultimately, Enforcement brought 
proceedings against iTrade and eleven individuals (including Sanders). Most of the cases 
involved sales practice violations such as unauthorized opening of accounts, unauthorized 
trading, and excessive trading.
17 The Firm was expelled from FINRA in a default decision 
issued on June 28, 2011, for opening accounts without customer authorization, unauthorized 
trading, suitability violations, false books and records, and other violations.18 

D. The Firm’s General Business Model 

The Firm’s representatives obtained business by “cold-calling” potential customers. The 
representatives used purchased lead cards. Each lead card contained some information about a 
potential customer, and, after a call to the prospect, a representative would write down additional 
information learned on the call. Sometimes representatives would call a potential customer 
repeatedly. Sometimes customers would ask for materials to be sent to them. Sometimes new 
accounts would be opened as a result of these efforts and trading initiated.

In his opening statement, Sanders described the Firm as a “boiler room” operation.

 E. The Firm’s Lack Of A Good Compliance Culture 

The Firm lacked a good compliance culture. The problem started at the top, with Sanders 
as the Chief Compliance Officer. He evidenced little concern about potential unauthorized 
account opening, unauthorized trading, or excessive trading. Rather, he seemed to consider 
customer complaints and refusals to pay for trades as part of the ordinary course of the business 
and as something the Firm could not change. As discussed below, to the extent that the Firm, 
through Sanders, instituted some procedures to confirm customer authorization for trades, it did 
not use effective procedures and did not implement those procedures consistently. 

Cold-calling in and of itself is not a violation of law or regulation, as Sanders pointed out 
in his opening statement. He said, “Cold calling is a legitimate way to get new customers. We 
are not Merrill Lynch. [Customers] are not calling us to open accounts. We have to go out and 
find the investors ourselves.”

17 CX-1, at 21-22; DiTrapani Decl. ¶¶ 3-8, 12-16; Hearing Tr. (DiTrapani) 280-81, 288-90. 
18 Disciplinary Proceeding No. 2009016059101. 
19 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 478-80; Hearing Tr. (DiTrapani) 283-86. 
20 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 36 (“First, I want to call iTrade operations a boiler room.”). 
21 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 36. 

However, Sanders described an attitude toward customers that is incompatible with 
compliance and regulatory concerns regarding customer protection. He compared the aggressive 
pursuit of customers in the cold-calling process to hooking a fish. He said, “You have a fish on 
the hook and you have spoken to the guy, you may call him repeated [sic] because he exhibited 
some interest. So I’m going to call him back and see at some point I do have an investment to 
entice him to do business with us.”22 Sanders displayed no concern that some of the Firm’s 
registered representatives had used high-pressure tactics not only to “hook” customers but to 
bully customers into ratifying and paying for unauthorized trades. 

In Sanders’ view, as expressed in his opening statement, customer “reneges” are common 
and inevitable in the cold-calling business. Customers first say they want to make a trade and 
then later refuse to pay, particularly if the investment has declined in value between the initial 
telephone authorization and the completion of the paperwork for the transaction. According to 
Sanders, even when iTrade instituted some confirmation procedures the Firm could not reduce 
the percentage of reneges below 18.5%.
23 He claimed in his testimony that when he investigated 
why a customer refused to pay for a trade he determined that 99% of the time “it was authorized 
and it’s just a renege.”
24 He also testified that 30% was a “pretty normal” renege rate for his 
office at iTrade.25 

As reflected in Sanders’ opening statement, iTrade did not encourage and support 
compliance. He described being rebuffed by management when he suggested that they wait until 
they received money from the customers before beginning to trade.
26 He also described the 
Firm’s owner as not knowing what he was doing.27 Although Sanders was the Chief Compliance 
Officer, he described himself as “just” the compliance officer. He displayed a sense that he 
could do nothing to change things at the Firm. He said, “I had to work with the cards I was 
dealt….You know, try as you may, you really have a hard time doing any better than that 
[18.5%].”

Sanders himself reflected the lack of a compliance-oriented attitude at the Firm. 
Although he was responsible for compliance, he displayed a combative attitude toward FINRA 
regulatory staff. Because FINRA examiners apparently did not adopt Sanders’ shoulder-
shrugging attitude about reneges, he called them “thickheaded.” He said, “I don’t know how 
they don’t understand. And then I realized it was more that they don’t want to understand. They 
want to turn something that isn’t a violation into a violation to extort money at some point when 
it comes time for, you know, fines or disciplinary actions or whatever. That was always my 
feeling, that you are taking something that is not a violation and trying to portray it as one.”

22 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 37. 
23 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 37-39 
24 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 451. 
25 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 457-58. 
26 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 38-39. 
27 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 52-53. 
28 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 39. 
29 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 42. 

 F. Supervisory Violation 

 (1) Sanders’ Failure To Respond Appropriately To Red Flags 

Customer reneges. Between April 2008 and the end of 2009, customers rejected over 
18% of the initial trades in new accounts that iTrade submitted to its clearing firm.30 Sanders 
acknowledged that the Firm could not get its customer reneges lower than 18.5% and that 
customer reneges as high as 30% were not uncommon for some representatives.31 These rates of 
rejection were red flags that required inquiry. 

The existence of situations that warranted investigation was confirmed by evidence that 
FINRA staff collected later. The staff collected declarations and responses to questionnaires 
regarding 36 different instances of alleged unauthorized opening of new accounts, accompanied 
by the placement of unauthorized initial trades. While these responses were not existing red 
flags at the time of the conduct at issue, they signified that there were many potential problems at 
the time that could have been uncovered by an appropriate inquiry and should have been 
investigated. Regardless of whether those situations involved actual unauthorized activity by 
registered representatives at the Firm, they reflect that there was a need for supervisory oversight 
and evaluation. 

Sanders’ testimony regarding his supervisory efforts was vague and unsupported by other 
record evidence. Even if taken at face value, his testimony shows that his supervisory efforts 
were haphazard and ineffective. He failed to exert any meaningful, consistent supervision. 

Sanders described in his hearing testimony confirmation procedures he pursued with the 
hope of reducing customer reneges. He testified that he would take new account sheets before 
they were complete and call the customers to confirm that they had authorized the transactions. 
Each time he did this he said he would initial the new account sheet and time-stamp it.

However, Sanders was vague about when he employed these procedures, and even by his 
own testimony he was inconsistent in applying the procedures. He thought that he was 
confirming at least some account openings in 2009, but he testified that he also might initial a 
new account information sheet without talking to a customer. He would do this if he left a 
confirming message on the customer’s voice mail.
33 As a result, his initial on a new account 
sheet did not indicate that he spoke to the customer.34 

When asked whether he initialed every new account information sheet as a principal 
regardless of whether there was a confirming call, Sanders was clueless, saying, “I’m trying to 
think how that worked. I don’t know that we collected these all along, and I don’t know if we 

30 DiTrapani Decl. ¶ 6; SX-6. 
31 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 39, 457-58. 
32 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 469-73, 476. 
33 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 473-74. 
34 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 472-76. 

started doing that when we had the issue in the reneges and that’s when the signing and all that 
went on.”35 Sanders testified he did what he could but that his attempts to confirm new accounts 
accomplished little.36 

Sanders was vague about whether and how he tracked customer reneges for individual 
representatives to determine if a representative had a suspicious pattern warranting further 
investigation or action. At his OTR on October 16, 2012, Sanders testified that “at some point” 
he was keeping track of the number of customer reneges for each representative but he did not 
know the “duration” of time that he did that. He did not know if he used a spreadsheet to do this. 
He did not know how many reneges might occur in a week on average. He testified that in any 
event he knew what he needed to know in his head.

Sanders’ process of investigating reneges after they occurred was similarly inadequate. 
His process involved little more than trying to call a few customers, largely unsuccessfully. 
Sanders testified at his October 16, 2012 OTR that he probably spoke to a few customers after 
they reneged but that mostly customers would avoid talking on the telephone again.
38 Sanders 
made it clear in his hearing testimony that he thought it was the customers, not the registered 
representatives at the Firm, who were untruthful. He testified, “In most cases, you can’t get them 
[the reneging customers] on the phone. They are hiding from you. They are not paying for a 
trade that they know they authorized and they see you on caller ID and they are not picking up 
the phone … or they come to the phone once and tell you don’t call again. That kind of thing. 
They are not really looking to discuss what went on.”

Nor did Sanders exercise any special care with respect to registered representatives who 
had large amounts of customer reneges. Sanders testified that when he saw representatives with 
a lot of customer reneges he would speak to the representatives. He would exhort them “to do 
what you can to make sure you are really buttoning these [customers] up good, that there is no 
question they are opening a new account and buying stock here.”
40 When he testified at his 
OTR, he could remember possibly placing only one representative on some kind of special 
supervision because of the high number of reneges, and then only a type of supervision that 
Sanders said was “[n]ot heightened supervision really.”41 

To some degree, Sanders’ lack of concern about unauthorized account openings and 
unauthorized trading stemmed from a manifest misunderstanding of the incentives to engage in 
unauthorized transactions. Sanders acknowledged that customer reneges were bad. But he 
considered them bad because they cost the Firm and its registered representatives money, not 
because reneges signaled potential misconduct by the registered representatives under his 

35 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 490-91. 
36 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 469-71, 489-92. 
37 SX-4, at 3-4. 
38 SX-4, at 7. 
39 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 450. 
40 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 470. 
41 SX-4, at 6-7. 

supervision.42 He claimed that registered representatives had no incentive to engage in 
unauthorized trading. He explained that the representatives bore various costs if a customer 
refused to pay for a trade, including a $50 cancellation fee, a $50 ticket fee, FedEx charges of 
$16 to $20 each way for the paperwork sent to the customer, and any loss on the trade—while 
the Firm retained any gain on the trade.43 

Sanders failed to recognize that a registered representative might make up the costs of 
some unauthorized trades if the representative’s volume was increased by persuading at least 
some customers to ratify trades they did not initially intend to authorize. Nor did he recognize 
that the high pressure tactics that led to unauthorized trades might yield a higher rate of 
authorized transactions, making up for some of the losses associated with customer reneges. 
Sanders also failed to recognize that the Firm itself had an incentive to permit unauthorized 
trading if it retained the gains on such trades without absorbing the costs or losses associated 
with them. 

The Hearing Panel finds that, with respect to unauthorized account opening and 
unauthorized trading, Sanders abdicated his supervisory responsibilities. The inadequacy of 
Sanders’ supervision in the face of high rates of customer reneges allowed the Firm’s 
representatives to prey on customers free of restraint and, in practical terms, served the Firm’s 
purposes. 

Excessive trading. The Firm’s clearing firm provided it with monthly exception reports 
that provided important information containing red flags of possible excessive trading. These 
reports showed each account that had met any of the following thresholds during the relevant 
month: a commission-to-equity ratio of 50% or more, total commissions of $10,000 or more, 
fifteen or more trades in the month, or a loss of 15% or more in the value of the account. The 
reports also showed the turnover rate for each account listed.

As discussed below, turnover rates of six or more are presumptively indicative of 
excessive trading. The reports for iTrade showed that the Firm’s representatives frequently 
engaged in potentially excessive trading in more than 700 accounts between March 2007 and 
April 2009. The reports showed turnover rates in many accounts in the tens or even hundreds—
well over the presumptively excessive turnover rate of six.

As discussed below, cost-to-equity and commission-to-equity ratios of 20% are 
considered indicative of wrongful conduct. The reports showed many accounts with cost-to-
equity or commission-to-equity ratios between 20% and 50%. In at least 150 instances, the 
ratios were so high that they exceeded the 99.99% maximum ratio that could be reported by the 
clearing firm’s reporting system. In those instances, the costs of trading, including commissions 
and margin costs, exceeded the value of the account.
46 In such situations, the active trading 

42 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 470-71. 
43 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 446-49. See also SX-4 and SX-5. 
44 DiTrapani Decl. ¶ 13; CX-32 through CX-58. 
45 CX-30, CX-31. 
46 DiTrapani Decl. ¶ 16; CX-30, CX-31. 

benefited the representatives by increasing their commissions, to the detriment of the customers, 
who bore expenses far out of proportion to their assets. 

The exception reports enabled a supervisor to identify and focus on particular 
representatives who might be churning their customers’ accounts. Some of the Firm’s registered 
representatives appeared on the reports repeatedly, as many as 30 or 40 times.47 

Sanders was responsible for reviewing exception reports or making sure that they were 
reviewed.48 He discounted them, however, as a tool for monitoring and supervising registered 
representatives. He said that he thought he knew more about whether trading was appropriate 
from his day-to-day interactions with the accounts. He testified at his OTR, “[S]tatistics are a 
handy tool, but I think I know more about the accounts just from seeing them day-to-day, than 
the information I get out of those reports.”

Sanders was not concerned about potential excessive trading activity.
50 He was asked 
whether there was any turnover ratio that he would consider potentially problematic because it 
was so high. He responded, “I really don’t know from turnover ratios. I always looked at the 
bigger picture, I think. What the client signed up for. What the trades are.”
51 He also took issue 
with the idea that a 20% commission-to-equity ratio was high. He said “You can’t look at it that 
way. I know FINRA could look at it that way, but equity is determined by your success or 
failure in the account.” He concluded that the ratio was a “bad measure.”
52 Sanders testified in 
an OTR, “We’re not really statistically based in our reviews of things. We’re more real time in 
looking at the specific accounts….”
53 In OTR testimony, Sanders testified that he did not rely on 
any specific numbers to assess excessive trading. He said that he would recognize a problem 
because “it’s like being in love … you can’t describe it necessarily, but you know it when you 
see it.”54 

Sanders did little, if anything, in response to the exception reports. He said that he never 
questioned a broker about the level of activity in an account, and he called “less than a handful” 
of customers to determine if the level of trading was too high.
55 The Hearing Panel finds that 
this was a completely inadequate response to the red flags confronting Sanders. 

47 DiTrapani Decl. ¶¶ 15, 35-36; CX-30. 
48 SX-4, at 2; CX-3, at 21. 
49 SX-5, at 9. 
50 SX-4, at 9. 
51 SX-4, at 12. 
52 SX-4, at 17. 
53 SX-5, at 11-12. 
54 SX-5, at 11-12. 
55 SX-4, at 12-13. 

 (2) Sanders’ Failure To Implement Heightened Supervision 

The Firm’s WSPs required Sanders to consider placing representatives who met certain 
criteria on heightened supervision. The criteria included representatives with three or more 
complaints, arbitrations, or actions alleging sales practice abuses within two years, and 
representatives employed by three or more other firms in the preceding five years.

Thirteen brokers at the Firm’s Long Island office met the criteria for heightened 
supervision. Some of those brokers substantially exceeded the threshold criteria for concern and 
heightened supervision. For example, one representative was the subject of seven complaints of 
sales practice abuses within only one year. Another representative had been employed by 
fourteen firms within the preceding five years. Six representatives had been employed by 
between four and nine firms within the last five years. Many of these representatives also were 
the subject of numerous active account exception reports, ranging from fifteen to fifty times. A 
number also were involved in accounts that had numerous customer reneges at the account 
opening. The customer reneges ranged from 15 for one representative to 27 for another and to a 
high of 31 for a third representative.

Despite these circumstances indicating that heightened supervision was required, Sanders 
claimed in his opening statement that he did not have to put the registered representatives on 
heightened supervision. He claimed that the WSPs granted him discretion and that he reasonably 
determined that heightened supervision was unnecessary.
58 He declared in his opening 
statement that he knew many of the representatives for ten years or more and that “[t]here was 
nothing going on that I needed to worry about.”59 The Hearing Panel finds that Sanders failed to 
implement the Firm’s WSPs regarding heightened supervision. 

 G. Failures To Report Customer Complaints 

Sanders was responsible for reporting customer complaints on behalf of the Firm in 
compliance with NASD Rule 3070.
60 Between May 1, 2008, and December 31, 2009, the Firm 
received at least 53 written customer complaints, of which it reported pursuant to NASD Rule 
3070(c) only 25. The complaints involved unauthorized trading (10), excessive trading or poor 
performance (12), and other significant misconduct.

Sanders was aware of the unreported complaints, or he was reckless if he was not aware 
of them. Almost all the complaints were in the form of email communications between 
representatives and customers.
62 Sanders testified in his OTR that all incoming email traffic 

56 CX-3, at 24. 
57 CX-30, CX-31, CX-59 through CX-72, CX-82; SX-6; DiTrapani Decl. ¶¶ 22 through 26. 
58 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 42-45. 
59 Hearing Tr. (Sanders) 43. 
60 CX-3, at 17, 20; SX-5, at 2-3. 
61 CX-74, CX-75. 
62 CX-75. 

came into a box for review by him or another colleague, specifically including all complaints 
sent to representatives by email. He claimed he reviewed customer complaints as they came 
in.63 If Sanders reviewed but failed to report the 28 unreported complaints, his failure is 
inexplicable and inexcusable. If he simply missed them and was unaware of them, his failure 
still is not excusable. Sanders, as the CCO, was ultimately responsible for implementing and 
maintaining appropriate systems for receiving and reviewing customer complaints.64 If he was 
unaware of more than half the complaints made during the relevant period, then he failed to have 
in place a reasonable system for dealing with customer complaints so that the Firm could comply 
with the reporting requirements. 

During the same 2008-2009 period, Sanders himself signed three settlements of 
customers complaints on behalf of the Firm. At least two of the three settling customers spoke 
with Sanders directly, so he knew that these were settlements of customer complaints. Sanders 
did not report the underlying customer complaints involved in the three settlements.

The Hearing Panel finds that Sanders’ failure to report over half the written customer 
complaints received by the Firm during the relevant period was at a minimum reckless, if not 
knowing. 

IV. ANALYSIS OF LIABILITY 

 A. Supervisory Violation 

The Fourth Cause of Action in the multi-respondent Complaint alleges that Sanders 
committed supervisory violations of NASD Rules 3010(a) and (b) and 2110, along with FINRA 
Rule 2010. 

NASD Rule 3010(a) requires each member firm to establish and maintain a system to 
supervise associated persons, and it details some of the requirements for the design of such a 
system. NASD Rule 3010(b) requires each member firm to establish, maintain, and enforce 
written supervisory procedures appropriate to its specific business and that are reasonably 
designed to achieve compliance with the applicable securities law and regulations, as well as 
FINRA’s Rules. 

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has described the standard of conduct 
expected of supervisors, saying, 

The duty of supervision includes the responsibility to investigate “red flags” that 
suggest that misconduct may be occurring and to act upon the results of such 

63 SX-5, at 4-5. 
64 CX-3, at 17-20. 
65 CX-76; DiTrapani Decl. ¶¶ 17-21. 

investigation. Once indications of irregularity arise, supervisors must respond 
appropriately.66 

A determination that a respondent failed to comply with his supervisory duties does not 
require a finding that a violation was committed by someone under the respondent’s 
supervision.
67 The focus in a supervisory case like this one is on the nature and number of red 
flags and whether the respondent’s response was reasonable in light of all the facts and 
circumstances. Inadequate supervision is inadequate supervision, regardless of whether those 
being supervised have been proven to have engaged in wrongdoing. 

In this case, the Firm established WSPs that placed ultimate responsibility for supervision 
on Sanders, as the CCO. But Sanders failed, utterly and completely, to fulfill his supervisory 
duties. 

In the face of numerous red flags of potential unauthorized account opening, 
unauthorized trades, and excessive trading, Sanders did nothing beyond exhorting the Firm’s 
registered representatives to decrease the number of customer reneges. Renege rates running as 
high as 30% over an extended period of time were red flags he could not ignore. 

Those rates are similar to renege rates that the SEC has held to require an immediate and 
intensive investigation. In Monroe Parker, the SEC said that a firm’s high rate of reneges, close 
to 38% but sometimes as low as 26.99%, was “by any objective standard” a “red flag” that 
“should have indicated an urgent need for investigation of the [f]irm’s sales practices.”
 68 The 
SEC continued, “We have frequently found that excessive reneges or cancellations are indicative 
of underlying compliance problems and may be evidence of violations. Our concern is 
heightened by the [f]irm’s casual response to the excessive cancellations. Its failure to 
investigate or institute remedial measures demonstrates a lack of adequate supervision….”

Similarly, the turnover rates or cost-to-equity rates that Sanders saw in numerous 
accounts were red flags requiring investigation. They represented a level of trading substantially 
in excess of 6%, which has been held indicative of excessive trading.

66 Ronald Pellegrino, Exchange Act Release No. 59125, 2008 SEC LEXIS 2843, at *33 (Dec. 19, 2008) (citations 
and quotations omitted). See also Michael T. Studer, Exchange Act Release No. 50543A, 2004 SEC LEXIS 3157, 
at *22 (Nov. 30, 2004). 
67 E.g., Robert J. Prager, Exchange Act Release No. 51974, 2005 SEC LEXIS 1558, at *48 and n.52 (July 6, 2005) 
(citing NASD Notice to Members 98-96 (Dec. 1998) (stating that a violation of Rule 3010 can occur in the absence 
of an underlying rule violation)). 
68 Monroe Parker Securities, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 39057, 1997 SEC LEXIS 1885, at *11 (Sept. 11, 
1997). In Monroe Parker, the SEC affirmed the SRO’s denial of a member’s request to have a restrictive agreement 
modified to allow the Firm to increase its number of registered representatives. 
69 Id. at *11-12. 
70 William J. Murphy, Exchange Act Release No. 69923, 2013 SEC LEXIS 1933, at *60-61 and n.78 (July 2, 2013) 
(collecting cases). 

In addition, despite red flags that more than a dozen registered representatives had a 
worrisome history of changing firms frequently, and/or a current pattern of trades rejected by 
clients, Sanders relied on his general sense from long acquaintance with the representatives that 
there was no problem. The SEC long ago made plain that red flags like the ones Sanders saw 
signal the need for heightened supervision. In Custable, the SEC disciplined a supervisory 
principal and firm for their failure to impose heightened supervision on a registered 
representative although they terminated him after only two months with the firm. The SEC 
pointed to two types of red flags that required them to impose heightened supervision: the 
registered representative had numerous unsettled trades (some of which signified that customers 
did not accept and pay for the trades), and the registered representative had a troubled history of 
complaints at his prior firm.71 

Sanders was confronted with many more red flags than the supervisor in Custable, and he 
ignored them over a far longer period of time, extending from April 2008 to December 2009. 
The Hearing Panel concludes that Sanders was oblivious to his supervisory duties and violated 
NASD Rule 3010(a) and (b). 

NASD Rule 2110 and FINRA Rule 2010 require that a member firm and its associated 
persons should observe high standards of commercial honor and conduct themselves consistent 
with just and equitable principles of trade. These identical Rules require members of the 
industry to conduct themselves with integrity, fairness, and honesty. It is well established that a 
violation of another NASD or FINRA Rule constitutes a violation of these Rules.
72 Accordingly, 
because Sanders violated NASD Rules 3010(a) and (b), he also violated NASD Rule 2110 and 
FINRA Rule 2010. 

In its memorandum in support of finding that Sanders violated his supervisory duties, 
Enforcement addressed two affirmative defenses that Sanders raised in his Answer. The Hearing 
Panel rejects Enforcement’s first argument, but finds that the second bolsters the Panel’s 
conclusion that Sanders committed the violations alleged. 

The first argument relates to Sanders’ Eleventh Affirmative Defense, in which he 
asserted that he, and not the customers, should be believed with respect to whether the customers 
had authorized the transactions they later reneged upon. Enforcement argued that the customers 
have no reason to lie, implying that their claims should be automatically granted credence. The 
Hearing Panel rejects that kind of blanket grant of credibility. In any event, whoever told the 
truth regarding authorization, the customers or the registered representatives, it is irrelevant to 
the question of whether Sanders, the supervisor, responded appropriately to the numerous 
significant red flags facing him. 

The second argument relates to Sanders’ Twelfth Affirmative Defense, in which he 
asserted that the registered representatives had nothing to gain from opening accounts or 
purchasing securities without authorization. As noted above, as a factual matter the assertion is 
incorrect. Moreover, in another disciplinary proceeding, Shevlin, the same argument was 

71 Frank J. Custable, Jr., Exchange Act Release No. 33324, 1993 SEC LEXIS 3437, at *6-8 (Dec. 10, 1993). 
72 Richard F. Kresge, Exchange Act Release No. 55988, 2007 SEC LEXIS 1407, at *42 (June 29, 2007). 

rejected. In that proceeding, a Hearing Panel found “it more likely that [the respondent] was 
willing to take the chance that potential customers would not complain, and that he could retain 
them as customers.”73 

 B. Reporting Violation 

The Fifth Cause of Action alleges multiple failures by Sanders to report customer 
complaints and settlements of customer complaints in violation of NASD Rules 3070 and 2110, 
along with FINRA Rule 2010. NASD Rule 3070(c) requires that a member firm periodically 
report customer complaints to FINRA. 

Uncontroverted facts establish that Sanders failed to report twenty-eight written customer 
complaints. Some of the unreported complaints were the subject of settlements in which Sanders 
himself was involved on behalf of the Firm. He committed the alleged violation of NASD Rule 
3070. As discussed above, because he violated this SRO Rule, he also violated NASD Rule 
2110 and FINRA Rule 2010. 

V. SANCTIONS 

 A. Guidelines 

The Hearing Panel’s analysis of the appropriate sanctions starts with FINRA’s Sanction 
Guidelines. The Guidelines contain recommendations for sanctions for many specific violations, 
depending on the circumstances. They also contain General Principles and overarching Principal 
Considerations that are applicable, as relevant, in all cases.
74 The Guidelines are intended to be 
benchmarks, not rigid requirements. This allows adjudicators to take into account all the facts 
and circumstances, with attention to the regulatory mission of FINRA—to protect investors and 
strengthen market integrity.

 B. Sanctions For Supervisory Violations 

The Guidelines contain recommendations for supervisory violations. Although 
individuals may be suspended from acting in a supervisory capacity as a sanction for a 
supervisory violation, in egregious cases an individual may be barred. The Guidelines 
recommend a fine ranging from $5,000 to $50,000. In addition, the Guidelines specifically note 
that, as set forth in General Principle No. 6, adjudicators may also order disgorgement.

The Guidelines related to supervisory violations specifically discuss three types of 
Principal Considerations that may bear on sanctions. One is whether the respondent ignored “red 
flags” signifying that additional supervisory scrutiny should have been applied. In this case, the 

73 Joseph Brian Shevlin, Jr., No. C10020075, 2003 NASD Discip. LEXIS 46, at *32 (OHO Oct. 2, 2003). 
74 FINRA Sanction Guidelines (2013) (“Guidelines”), http://www.finra.org/industry/sanction-guidelines. 
75 See Guidelines at 1, Overview. 
76 Guidelines at 5, 103. 

Hearing Panel has found that Sanders was oblivious to numerous red flags—large numbers of 
customer reneges in connection with account openings and the initial trades in those accounts 
that suggested unauthorized trading; and turnover, cost-to-equity or commission-to-equity ratios 
that suggested excessive trading. The Panel also found that Sanders failed to impose heightened 
supervision, even though over a dozen registered representatives had the kind of history that 
required them to be more closely supervised. 

Various factors cause the Hearing Panel to conclude that Sanders’ supervisory failures 
were egregious. His failures continued for the entire relevant time period—April 2008 through 
December 2009. This was an extended period of time, not an isolated moment.77 The red flags 
were numerous, obvious, and a sign of potentially rampant unauthorized and excessive trading 
by the Firm’s registered representatives. But Sanders did so little in response to the red flags as 
to amount to the abdication of his supervisory responsibilities.78 The underlying potentially 
violative conduct of the registered representatives put investors at risk. There were a large 
number of transactions that Sanders should have investigated.79 Sanders took no responsibility 
for his misconduct and displayed little regard for regulatory concerns or customer protection.80 
Sanders failed to comply with the Firm’s own WSPs regarding heightened supervision. That he 
was the Firm’s CCO aggravates this failure to comply with the Firm’s policies and procedures. 

Moreover, Sanders has a disciplinary history that includes discipline for failure to 
supervise potential unauthorized trading at another firm. Because of that settlement, Sanders 
knew that cancelled initial trades—reneges — are considered a red flag of potential unauthorized 
trading. He also knew that it was unacceptable in the face of so many reneges to rely on the 
registered representatives without contacting the customers involved. That settlement concerned 
only twenty-three cancelled initial trades, not the hundreds that Sanders ignored in this case.

In light of the facts and circumstances of the supervisory violations and Sanders’ 
disciplinary history, the Hearing Panel does not believe Sanders is capable of conforming his 
conduct to the applicable regulatory requirements. Accordingly, in order to protect the investing 
public and deter Sanders and others from such misconduct, the Hearing Panel bars Sanders from 
associating with any FINRA member in any capacity. The SEC has recognized that a bar from 
the industry can be appropriate where the nature of a supervisory violation indicates that the 
violator is a serious risk to the investing public.

77 Guidelines at 6, Principal Consideration 9. 
78 Guidelines at 7, Principal Consideration 13. Sanders’s refusal to recognize what the red flags signaled amounted 
to intentional ignorance or willful blindness. At best, it was extremely reckless. 
79 Guidelines at 7, Principal Consideration 18. 
80 Guidelines at 6, Principal Consideration 2. 
81 SX-2, at 4-5. 
82 The SEC has upheld a bar from the industry where a supervisor failed to act appropriately in response to red flags 
raising a suspicion of unauthorized trading. Murphy, 2013 SEC LEXIS 1933, at *75-92, 111-20. 

 C. Sanctions For Reporting Violations 

The Guidelines with respect to a failure to report information in violation of NASD Rule 
3070 are detailed. They cover late reporting, false and misleading reporting, inaccurate 
reporting, and the complete failure to report. Regardless of whether this case is viewed as 
involving inaccurate reporting (because some customer complaints were reported) or a complete 
failure to report (because twenty-eight customer complaints were never reported), Sanders’ 
misconduct qualifies as egregious, and in egregious cases of all types adjudicators may consider 
suspending the responsible principal in any or all capacities for up to two years or barring that 
person in all supervisory capacities. A fine of $5,000 to $100,000 may be imposed for 
inaccurate reporting or a failure to report.

One of the Principal Considerations relevant to reporting violations instructs adjudicators 
to consider whether the unreported or inaccurately reported events would have established a 
pattern of potential misconduct. Another of the Principal Considerations relevant to reporting 
violations is the number of unreported incidents.
84 In this case, these Principal Considerations 
weigh in favor of stringent sanctions. The additional twenty-eight unreported customer 
complaints constituted more than half the complaints that should have been reported. In the 
circumstances here, that is a large number of unreported incidents. By more strongly 
establishing a pattern, the unreported complaints certainly would have contributed to and 
strengthened the conclusion that many of the Firm’s registered representatives may have been 
engaging in misconduct. 

The Hearing Panel determines that it would be appropriate to suspend Sanders from 
associating with any FINRA member firm in any and all capacities for one year and to fine him 
$25,000. The suspension is in the mid-range of suspensions; the fine is less than half the range 
of recommended fines.
85 However, in light of the sanction for the supervisory violation, these 
sanctions are not imposed. 

VI. CONCLUSION 

Brian Sanders violated NASD Rules 3010(a) and (b) and 2110, and FINRA Rule 2010. 
Accordingly, he is barred from association with any FINRA member in any capacity and ordered 
to pay costs in the amount of $5408.70, which includes a $750 administrative fee and the cost of 
the transcript.

83 Guidelines at 74. 
84 Id. 
85 The National Adjudicatory Council (“NAC”) has cited the failure to report eleven customer complaints as a basis 
for barring a supervisor for FINRA Rule 3070 violations. The NAC declared that the unreported complaints of sale s 
practice abuses would have revealed a pattern of misconduct. Dep’t of Market Regulation v. Kresge, No. 
CMS030182, 2008 FINRA Discip. LEXIS 46 (NAC Oct. 9, 2008) (barring respondent in all capacities). 
86 The Hearing Panel has considered and rejects without discussion any other arguments made by the Parties that are 
inconsistent with this decision. 

If this decision becomes FINRA’s final disciplinary action, the bar will take immediate 
effect. 

________________________ 
Lucinda O. McConathy 
Hearing Officer 
For the Hearing Panel