Margin Credit and Stock Return Predictability
Prachi Deuskar, Nitin Kumar, and Jeramia Allan Poland ∗
September 1, 2016
Abstract
Margin credit, defined as the excess debt capacity of investors buying securities on the
margin, is a very strong predictor of aggregate stock returns. It outperforms other
forecasting variables proposed in the literature, in-sample as well as out-of-sample. Its
out-of-sample R2, 7.45% at the monthly horizon and 35.68% at the annual horizon,
is more than twice as large as that of the next best predictor. It produces a Sharpe
Ratio of 1.42 over recessions and 0.96 over expansions and overall annualized Certainty
Equivalent Return gain of 9.5%, all considerably larger than those for the other pre-
dictors. Further, margin credit predicts market crashes and avoids substantial parts
of the stock market downturns around 2001 and 2008. Margin credit predicts future
returns because it contains information about future discount rates as well as future
cash flows.
∗All authors are at the Indian School of Business. Prachi Deuskar can be reached
at prachi deuskar@isb.edu, Nitin Kumar at nitin kumar@isb.edu, and Jeramia Allan Poland at
jeramia poland@isb.edu. We thank Viral Acharya, Shashwat Alok, Bhagwan Chowdhry, Sisir Debnath,
Ravi Jagannathan, Tarun Jain, Sanjay Kallapur, John Leahy, Debraj Ray, Krishnamurthy Subramanian, K
R Subramanyam, Jayanthi Sunder, Shyam Sunder, Suresh Sundaresan and the participants in the Indian
School of Business brown bag and the 2016 ISB Econ-Finance Research Workshop for helpful comments.
Any remaining errors are ours alone. Copyright c⃝2016 by Prachi Deuskar, Nitin Kumar, and Jeramia Allan
Poland. All rights reserved.
1 Introduction
Formal equity premium prediction is at least as old as sliced bread. 1 Thousand of investors
move millions of shares worth billions of dollars daily on formal or informal predictions of
future returns. However, making a successful return prediction is not as easy as eating
a sandwich. Only a subset of these investors are sophisticated enough to make a good
prediction.
Academic literature has proposed a host of signals for future returns over time. Unfortu-
nately, a comprehensive investigation of most popular of these variables by Welch and Goyal
(2008) reveals that none of them outperform simple historical average of equity premium or
can be used to make money. These variables – dividend price ratio, book to market ratio,
volatility, various interest rate spreads among others – try to extract information from the
prices, returns and valuation ratios of diﬀerent financial assets. However, Huang, Jiang, Tu,
and Zhou (2015) and Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) have taken a diﬀerent track
recently. They develop much stronger and more actionable predictors by extracting infor-
mation about beliefs of subsets of investors. Motivated by this, we extract information from
investors who establish leveraged long positions using margin debt. These margin investors
are likely to have strong beliefs since they are willing to lever up.
We construct a measure from the excess debt capacityof investors that use margin debt
to establish long positions. This excess debt capacity – we call it margin credit – results from
these investors choosing not to reinvesttheir gains from the levered long positions (details
in Section 2). Over our sample period of 31 years from 1984 to 2014, we find that a higher
margin credit predicts lower future market returns. We compare margin credit with other
popular predictors and find that margin credit is the strongest predictor to date of future
market returns.
A rule by the Financial Industry Regulatory Agency (FINRA) requires the brokers to
1”The Magazine of Wall Street” published Dow’s ”Scientific Stock Speculation” in 1920 while Otto
Fredrick Rowedder completed the first machine capable of slicing and packaging a loaf of bread in July
of 1927.
report monthly aggregate margin debt used by investors to take long positions and aggregate
credit in such margin accounts. A credit in the margin account is typically posted when a
levered long position appreciates in value and the investor decides not to reinvest the gain.
Reinvesting the gains made from levered long positions requires further borrowing from the
broker. Hence, a decision not to reinvestthe gain results in excess debt capacity. This is a
“hold” signal coming from winning investors. That is, the investors who are ex-post correct
about their past beliefs now have pessimistic view about future returns. We thus expect an
inverse relationship between margin credit and future returns.
We test this hypothesis using the monthly series of the aggregate margin debt and margin
credit published by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the FINRA. We construct
two new predictors: one based on margin debt and the other based on margin credit. The
monthly values of margin debt and margin credit are scaled by the GDP to make them
comparable across time. Each measure displays a strong and statistically significant upward
trend over the period 1984 to 2014 most likely due to the expansion of the equity market,
deregulation of margin purchasing and easing of access to credit. 2 We remove this uninfor-
mative increase by detrending the monthly ratios of margin debt to GDP and margin credit
to GDP. Our two new predictors MD, based on margin debt, and MC, based on margin
credit, are formed by standardizing the detrended series.
MD, quite popular among the practitioners and the financial press, is a strong negative
predictor of the aggregate market return in-sample. But its performance out-of-sample is
weak. However MC, largely ignored until now, is a significant predictor of market returns.
Consistent with our hypothesis of an inverse relationship between margin credit and future
returns, we find that a one standard-deviation increase in MC predicts that the next month’s
market return would be lower by 1.1 percentage point. MC generates an in-sample R2 value
of 6.25% for next month’s returns which increases to 27.29% at the annual horizon, numbers
typically at least twice as large as the next best predictor. MC performs strongly out-
of-sample as well, generating an R2 of 7.45% at monthly frequency, which rises to more
2Until January of 1974 the US Government through the Federal Reserve Board actively managed the
margin requirement, amount of equity needed to take a margin position.
than 35% at annual frequency, again producing substantially better performance than other
predictors. At most horizons, not only is MC the best performer, it also encompasses all the
information contained in the other predictors.
We also examine how asset allocation strategies based on MC perform. We provide
the key results here. The details are in Section 5. A market timing strategy based on
MC, for a mean-variance investor, has substantially larger Sharpe Ratio at 1.0 than that
of strategies based on previous predictors. Over the out-of-sample period, it produces an
annualized Certainty Equivalent Return (CER) gain of 9.5% compared to strategy based on
the historical average return. Over NBER recessions and expansions, it generates a Sharpe
Ratio of 1.42 and 0.96, respectively. Figure 3 shows the cumulative log returns of this
strategy and a simple S&P 500 buy-and-hold strategy from 1994 to 2014.
The high performance of an MC-based asset allocation strategy in our sample comes
from avoidance of substantial parts of two large downturns, the dotcom bust of early 2000s
and the 2008-9 financial crisis. In particular, a MC-based strategy predicts crashes in the
near future. Figure 4 shows the returns of MC-based strategy during the 12 worst and best
months of S&P 500. While the strategy misses only 4 of the best 12 S&P 500 months,
it avoids 7 out of 12 worst monthly crashes. In fact, during those 7 months, the strategy
allocates negative weight to the S&P 500 and positive weight on T-bills, generating high
returns when market crashes.
While the MC-based strategy that takes a short position in the S&P 500 can be easily
implemented using index futures, we also consider a long-only asset allocation strategy that
invests 100% in the S&P 500 or 100% in the risk free asset. This strategy can be implemented
even by small investors who do not trade in the S&P 500 futures market. We find that this
long-only strategy also out-performs the simple buy-and-hold strategy by a large margin.
It generates a Sharpe Ratio of 0.96 over recessions, compared to -0.81 for the buy-and-hold
strategy. Over expansions as well the Sharpe of 0.95 of this strategy is larger than 0.79 of
the buy-and-hold strategy. Figure 5 plots the cumulative log returns of long-only strategy
based on margin credit.
Two questions arise. First, who are these margin long investors? And second, why does
MC predicts future returns? Not much is known about composition of margin long investors.
However, we can look at behavior of hedge funds, the market participants well-known for
their use of leverage, for some clues as to why margin credit may information about the
future returns. Chen and Liang (2007) find evidence that market timing hedge funds do
time the market particularly during bear and volatile markets. 3 Ang, Gorovyy, and van
Inwegen (2011) find that hedge funds reduced their leverage in mid-2007 just prior to the
financial crisis. They also find that hedge funds reduce their leverage when the risk of the
assets goes up. Agarwal, Ruenzi, and Weigert (2016) find that before the 2008 crisis, hedge
funds reduced their exposure to tail risk by changing composition of their stock and option
portfolio. Liu and Mello (2011) build a theoretical model to understand why hedge funds
might increase their allocation to cash substantially before a crisis. They point to risk of
runs by investors of hedge funds as a reason. Indeed, Ben-David, Franzoni, and Moussawi
(2012) find that hedge funds substantially reduced their holdings of stocks during the 2007-
8 crisis due to redemptions and pressure from their lenders. Such conservative behavior
by hedge funds in response to greater risk would push up risk premium i.e. the discount
rate. On the other hand, hedge funds, being sophisticated investors could posses superior
information about the future cash flows. For example, Brunnermeier and Nagel (2004)
find that hedge funds successfully anticipated price movements of technology stocks during
the Nasdaq bubble and sold their positions prior to the crash. Indeed, Dai and Sundaresan
(2010) theoretically model optimal leverage choice by hedge funds and show that, the optimal
leverage, among other things, depends upon the Sharpe Ratio of the assets. Hedge funds
optimally cut back the leverage if their estimate of the Sharpe Ratio declines – either due
to increase in estimate of risk i.e. discount rate or decrease in estimate of return i.e. cash
flows. To the extent that margin investors have similar beliefs and trading strategies as hedge
funds, ability of MC to predict future returns could come from the discount rate channel or
the cash flow channel.
3The evidence on timing ability of hedge funds is mixed. While Chen and Liang (2007) find support for
the timing ability, Griﬃn and Xu (2009) do not.
We next investigate the channel through which MC predicts future returns. Using the
log-linearized return identity in Campbell and Shiller (1988) and following the approach in
Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015), we examine if MC predicts discount rate and cash flow
proxies. Our evidence shows that MC’s predictive power flows from both the cash flow and
discount rate channels.
Our paper contributes to the long literature on return predictability. In a seminal paper,
Fama (1970) reviews early work and casts the evidence in the framework of market eﬃciency.
The work in 1970s and 1980s saw many predictors being examined, with the dividend-price
ratio (examined by Campbell and Shiller (1988) among many others) being one of the most
popular variables. A sequel by Fama (1991) reviews the later work. The literature has
continued to explore newer macroeconomic and financial market variables (see Welch and
Goyal (2008) and Rapach and Zhou (2013)). In this strand of literature, we extend recent
work that focuses on a subset of investors to successfully predict returns. Huang, Jiang, Tu,
and Zhou (2015) show that an index based on Baker and Wurgler (2006) investor sentiment
proxies predicts lower future returns. Investor sentiment is likely to reflect the beliefs of
unsophisticated investors and accordingly acts as a contrarian predictor. Kruttli, Patton,
and Ramadorai (2015) show that aggregate illiquidity of hedge fund portfolios is a significant
predictor of a large number of international equity indices including the U.S. index. Rapach,
Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) show that an index based on aggregate positions of the short
investors is a strong, negative predictor of S&P 500 returns through forecasts of lower future
cash flows. The results suggest that short sellers are sophisticated investors whose actions
contain useful information. Above studies suggest that for predicting equity premium it is
more fruitful to extract information about beliefs of the right subset of investors. Similar
to the above studies, we find that conservative behavior by levered investors indicates lower
future market returns, thus linking the literature on hedge fund behavior (cited above) to
the return predictability literature.
Our paper also contributes to the literature that examines impact of margin conditions
and leverage ratios of financial market participants to asset prices. Rappoport and White
(1994) find that prior to the 1929 crash, interest rate on margin loans as well as margin
requirements increased, indicating an increased expectation of the crash. Garleanu and Ped-
ersen (2011) study, theoretically and empirically, the implications for diﬀerential margin
requirements across assets. He and Krishnamurthy (2013) theoretically model asset pric-
ing dynamics when the financial intermediaries are capital-constrained. Rytchkov (2014)
presents an analysis of risk-free rate, risk-premium and volatilities in a general equilibrium
model with endogenously changing margin constraints. He, Kelly, and Manela (2016) find
that capital ratio of primary dealers is a cross-sectionally priced factor for many assets.
While this literature focuses on the impact of margin requirements or capital constraints, we
empirically show that voluntary reduction in leverage by margin investors has information
about future returns.
Understanding the nature of our new predictors requires understanding the formalities
of margin trading and levered accounting. So we turn to it next.
2 Understanding margin credit
In this section, we illustrate how actions of investors lead to changes in margin debt and
how margin credit is generated.
2.1. Purchasing on margin
An investor wishing to take a long position in a stock can use 100% of her own funds to take
the position or borrow part of the funds from her broker. When she chooses the latter, she
must open a “margin” account with the broker. The purchased securities act as a collateral
for the loan. As per Federal Reserve Board Regulation T (Reg T), in general, an investor can
borrow up to 50% of the value of the stock, subject to the rules of her brokerage house which
can be more stringent. The amount of investor’s own funds is called margin. The fraction
required to be financed by investor’s equity at the time of establishing the position – which is
1 minus the maximum borrowing limit – is called the “initial margin”. In addition, Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the exchanges have rules about “maintenance
margin”, a fraction of the value of the securities, generally 25%, below which the investor’s
equity must not fall. If the equity falls below the maintenance margin due to a drop in price,
the investor will receive a margin call to deposit additional funds into the margin account.
On the other hand, if due to favorable price movements the investors’ equity becomes higher
than the initial margin required, the investor will get a credit in her margin account which
she can withdraw without closing the position. We call this credit “margin credit”. To
clarify the accounting and the statutory rules regarding margin debt and credit, we work
through an extended example below.
2.2. Margin accounting
Consider, investor P who wants to buy 10 shares of Apple at USD 100 each. She opens
a margin account with broker B, who has a margin requirement of 60% and maintenance
margin of 25%. P will need to invest 60% of the value of the position using her own money
and can borrow remaining 40% from B. When the position is established the numbers look
as follows:
Situation Shares Price Position Value Margin Debt Equity Margin Credit
0 10 100 1000 400 600 0
Now suppose the price falls to USD 50 per share. The 25% maintenance margin is now
binding.
Situation Shares Price Position Value Margin Debt Equity Margin Credit
1 10 50 500 400 100 0
In this case, P’s equity (Position Value - Margin Debt) is only 20% of the position value,
a fraction lower than the maintenance margin. So P will receive a margin call for USD 25
and will have to deposit additional money in the margin account.
Now, consider a diﬀerent situation where price increases to 250 instead of dropping to
50. This will result in margin credit.
Situation Shares Price Position Value Margin Debt Equity Margin Credit
2 10 250 2500 400 2100 600
With the position value of 2500 and margin debt only 400, the equity is 84% of the value
of the position, higher than the margin requirement of 60%. This excess 24% of the position
value i.e. 600 is reflected as margin credit. The formula for margin credit is thus
Margin Credit = (Position Value) * (1 - Margin Requirement) - Margin Debt.
(1 - Margin Requirement) is the maximum debt the investor can take as a fraction of
the position value. Hence, (Position Value) * (1 - Margin Requirement) gives the total debt
capacity of the investor. Once we subtract the debt already taken, we get margin credit
which is nothing but excess debt capacity.
The investor can choose to withdraw the balance of margin credit, or use it to increase
the position value or keep it as margin credit balance. If withdrawn, the margin account
numbers will look as follows:
Situation Shares Price Position Value Margin Debt Equity Margin Credit
3 10 250 2500 1000 1500 0
Note that margin credit is part of equity. So if margin credit is withdrawn, equity drops
by the amount of margin credit is withdrawn and since position value doesn’t change, margin
debt goes up. In the above example, after margin credit is withdrawn, margin credit drops
to 0 and margin debt increases by 600.
P can choose to use the margin credit to take additional position in Apple. The margin
credit of 600 will act as 60% equity for the additional position and P can supplement it with
additional loan of 400 to support a position of 1000 or 4 additional shares.
Situation Shares Price Position Value Margin Debt Equity Margin Credit
4 14 250 3500 1400 2100 0
Now the margin debt stands at 1400, an initial loan of 400, withdrawn margin credit of
600 and the additional loan of 400 to buy 4 more shares.
Can we extract any information about future performance of Apple stock from margin
debt and margin credit balances? We next turn to this question.
2.3. Information in margin debt and margin credit
An investor would want to lever up a long position using margin debt when she is bullish
about the stock. So higher values of margin debt would indicate more positive beliefs about
future returns. However, margin debt levels are imperfect proxy of the investor’s belief. For
example, notice that from Situation 2 to 3, margin debt increased on withdrawal of margin
credit even though P did not take additional long position in Apple. Further, there are
additional reasons why margin debt may be a noisy signal.
Consider Situation 1 above. In this case, P’s position lost value and P received a margin
call. If P cannot pay the margin call, the position will have to be closed and margin debt
and position value become 0. In case of such forced deleveraging, margin debt balance
drops after the fall in price, and hence is not useful as a predictive signal for future price
movements. Moreover, forced selling to close the long positions may lead to even more price
drops and potentially, a spiral of margin calls, forced deleveraging, forced selling and further
price drops. In fact, many market participants believe that that high levels of margin debt
predict fall, not rise, in the market index. For example, an article on a popular blog site
http: //www.zerohedge.com/ asserts4
“What is important to remember is that margin debt fuels major market reversions as
4http: //www.zerohedge.com/news/2016 −03 −15/margin−debt−flashes −red−fed −cometh.
margin calls lead to increased selling pressure to meet required settlements. Unfortunately,
since margin debt is a function of portfolio collateral, when the collateral is reduced it
requires more forced selling to meet margin requirements. If the market declines further,
the problem becomes quickly exacerbated.... The danger of high levels of margin debt, as
we have currently, is that the right catalyst could ignite a selling panic.... The issue is not
whether margin debt will matter, it is just when. ”
Further, margin debt balances, aggregated across investors, cannot distinguish between
investors with superior and inferior information about future returns. Thus, if the popula-
tion buying on the margin is dominated by investors with incorrect beliefs, high levels of
margin debt, would indicate lower future returns. As we discuss below, margin credit is
less susceptible to this particular drawback of margin debt because it focuses on winning
investors who were correct about their past beliefs.
While margin debt could be a “buy” or “sell” signal (although quite noisy), margin credit
appears to be “hold” signal. Greater the margin credit balance, greater is the signal that
investors have chosennot to reinvest, indicating a lukewarm belief about future returns. Thus
we would expect a negative relationship between margin credit and future returns. Moreover,
margin credit only results from appreciation of value of long positions indicating that the
investors with margin credit have been correct in the past. This focus on winning investors
potentially allows margin credit to extract beliefs of relatively sophisticated investors.
However, margin credit is not a perfect signal either. If investors choose to withdraw
margin credit as in Situation 3, margin credit balance drops without corresponding improve-
ment in the belief about future returns. Further, margin credit is not the strongest signal
of investor pessimism. If investors strongly believe that the market will drop, they would
close their leveraged long position and take a short position. This is consistent with Rapach,
Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) who find that aggregate short interest is a “sell” signal. Thus,
it is matter of empirical investigation how well margin debt and margin credit balances work
as predictive signals about aggregate stock returns.
3 Data
We construct scaled margin debt and scaled margin credit from monthly data on the value
borrowed by all investors with NYSE member organizations and the amount held by the
same investors which could be withdrawn. 5 The data are end of month values and FINRA
rule 4521 requires that these numbers be reported for only investor accounts used to take
long positions on margin. That is, these numbers represent diﬀerent information than is
contained in the monthly reporting on short trading. 6 The data is available at the NYSE
and FINRA websites with a two month delay. 7 To account for the two month reporting
delay, we use margin debt and credit numbers that are two months old to avoid look-ahead
bias. For example, we use the June 1995 numbers for August 1995.
The raw margin statistics numbers are reported in millions of dollars. We scale these
values so they are relative to the size of the economy by dividing by nominal GDP. We
pull the history of all GDP announcements from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
website (https://www.philadelphiafed.org/). This provides the numbers announced in each
5NYSE Rules Chapter 1.2.1.17 rule 2 defines ”member organization” as a registered broker or dealer that
is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (”FINRA”) or another registered securities
exchange.
6Rule 4521(d) requires that a member must only include free credit balances in cash and securities margin
accounts in the report. Balances in short accounts and in special memorandum accounts (see Regulation T
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) are not considered free credit balances.
7Updated margin debt and credit numbers are available from the NYSE at
http://www.nyxdata.com/nysedata/asp/factbook/viewer edition.asp?mode=tables&key=50&category=8.
FINRA makes available the same numbers at http://www.finra.org/investors/margin-statistics.
quarter since 1965 which includes numbers for every quarter since 1947. So, for example the
announcement in Q1 1995 would include numbers for each quarter since 1947 up to the first
announced numbers for Q4 1994 while the announcement in Q1 1996 would include numbers
from 1947 upto Q4 1995 and the numbers for Q4 1994 would be in the fourth revision.
For the purposes of in-sample testing we take the values announced in Q4 2015 which
have the fourth, usually final, revisions for the numbers through Q4 2014. For out of sample
testing, the GDP numbers that are available to investors at that time of making a prediction
are used to avoid any look-ahead bias. So for making a prediction in August 1997, we use
the numbers available in the Q2 1997 announcement. The GDP numbers used are further
lagged by taking the Q1 1997 GDP value from Q2 1997 announcement. This last adjustment
is done because there seems to be the largest change in value from the first to second revision
in GDP announcements.
The GDP numbers provided are in real 2009 dollars. To eliminate the look ahead bias
that would be introduced by dividing MC, a nominal value, by real 2009 GDP dollars,
we convert the numbers to the nominal values before dividing. This gives us the ratio that
investors would have had seen when dividing nominal MC by nominal GDP in a given month.
Margin statistics are available from January 1959. However revisions to Reg T in June
1983 make post-1983 margin credit incomparable to pre-1983 margin credit. 8 To insure
comparability of data across time we begin our sample in 1984, using the margin statistics
available as of December 1983.9
Our focus is on the prediction of excess returns to a value-weighted portfolio. Consistent
with existing literature we measure this excess return as the log of the return to the S&P 500
8See the NYSE margin statistics website for details.
9Due to reporting lag the margin statistics are the value reported for October 1983 which are made
available in December 1983.
minus the log of the return to a one month Treasury bill.10 We compare the predictive ability
of margin credit and margin debt to the 14 monthly predictors of Welch and Goyal (2008), the
mean prediction of those 14 variables (Rapach, Strauss, and Zhou (2010)), the modified mean
prediction using the strictest modification proposed by Campbell and Thompson (2008),
market capitalization to GDP, the so called “Buﬀett Valuation Indicator”, and the short
interest index measure of Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016).11 Data on the 14 monthly
variables of Welch and Goyal (2008) is available from Amit Goyal’s website this includes:
•Log dividend-price ratio (DP): log of the ratio of the 12-month moving sum of dividends
paid on the S&P500 index and the S&P 500 index.
•Log dividend yield (DY): log of the ration of the 12-month moving sum of dividends
paid and the previous month’s S&P 500 index.
•Log earnings-price ratio (EP): log of the ratio of the 12-month moving sum of earnings
on the S&P 500 index and the S&P 500 index.
•Log dividend-payout ratio (DE): log of the ratio of the 12-month moving sum of divi-
dends and the 12-month moving sum of earnings.
•Excess stock return volatility (RVOL): computed using the 12-month moving standard
deviation estimator.
•Book-to-market ratio (BM): book-to-market value ratio for the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.
10These data are available from Amit Goyal’s website: http://www.hec.unil.ch/agoyal/
11In addition to the popularity of Buﬀett Valuation Indicator, we include this measure to demonstrate
that the performance of margin credit scaled by GDP is not induced by a valuation eﬀect coming from the
ratio of market capitalization to GDP.
•Net equity expansion (NTIS): ratio of the 12-month moving sum of net equity issues
by NYSE-listed stocks to the total end-of-year market capitalization of NYSE stocks.
•Treasury bill rate (TBL): interest rate on a three-month Treasury bill traded on the
secondary market.
•Long-term yield (LTY): long-term government bond yield.
•Long-term return (LTR): return on long-term government bonds.
•Term spread (TMS): long-term yield minus the Treasury bill rate.
•Default yield spread (DFY): diﬀerence between Moodys BAA- and AAA-rated corpo-
rate bond yields.
•Default return spread (DFR): long-term corporate bond return minus the long-term
government bond return.
•Inflation (INFL): calculated from one month lagged Consumer Price Index (CPI) for
all urban consumers
We scale market capitalization numbers from the Center for Research in Security Prices
(CRSP) by GDP. This is available monthly through the end of 2015 and from this we
construct:
•Market Capitalization to GDP (CAP/GDP): the ratio of the monthly CRSP total
market capitalization to quarterly GDP number.
Rapach makes available the monthly equally-weighted short interest (EWSI) data on his
website.12 These numbers are available through the end of 2014. Because EWSI ends in
12http://sites.slu.edu/rapachde/home/research
2014, we end our data in December of 2014. 13 From EWSI we calculate:
•Short Interest Index (SII): the residual values from the detrending of the log of the
monthly equally-weighted short interest (EWSI).
Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) construct a sentiment index from the 6 proxies from
Baker and Wurgler (2006) based on the partial least square approach. The data for this
variable is available from Zhou’s webpage.14 We call this variable SI PLS.15
Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) detrend the log of EWSI by regressing it against
a time variable, due to evidence of a significant linear trend. We suspect the presence of a
deterministic trend in our primary variable of interest, the ratio of margin credit to GDP,
for the same reason which Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) cite for the rising trend in
equally-weighted short interest. They highlight the expansion of the equity lending market
along with the increase in the number of hedge funds and size of assets managed by hedge
funds. This expands the portfolios against which margin debt can be raised and by which
margin credit is generated, but is uninformative in regards to the expectations of margin
long investors. Statistical tests for the presence of a significant deterministic trend, tests
of the significance of βc and βd, are subject to size and power distortions depending on the
sample size and the estimated auto-correlation in the sample. (See Harvey, Leybourne, and
Taylor (2007) and Perron and Yabu (2009).) Perron and Yabu (2009) show that their trend
test is at least as eﬃcient and powerful as any other in our sample size, 373 months, and
given the naive estimate of the auto-correlation which, for example, is above 0.95 for margin
credit. We find that margin credit to GDP shows a deterministic trend at the 1% level in
13Due to the substantial performance of SII shown in Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016), we also
extend back from 1983 to 1973 the monthly data available for EWSI and construct SII 1973 using all of the
data made available on Rapach’s website.
14http: //apps.olin.wustl.edu/faculty/zhou/SentimentIndices Dec2014.xls
15Similar to SII 1973, we also use SI PLS 1965 where we use all of the data available for SI PLS.
the Perron-Yabu test with a t-statistic of 3.36. Indeed, Ng and Perron (2001) unit root test
rejects unit root in Margin Credit to GDP against the alternative of trend stationary at
10% (statistic: -2.58, critical value: -2.57). Kwiatkowski, Phillips, Schmidt, and Shin (1992)
(KPSS) unit root test rejects the unit root against the alternative of trend stationarity at
5% (statistic: 0.1614, critical value: 0.146). We thus detrend the ratios of margin credit
and margin debt to GDP by the same regression method as Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou
(2016). We run the following regressions,
MarginCreditt
GDPt
= αc + βct+ ut
MarginDebtt
GDPt
= αd + βdt+ vt
The residuals from these regressions ut and vt are our predictors, MC and MD, respectively.
For robustness, we test MC and MD for non-stationarity which is rejected by the augmented
Dickey-Fuller, Ng-Perron, and the KPSS tests.
Removing the uninformative increases from MC and MD leaves us with economically
relevant measures of the debt level and excess debt capacity held by margin long investors.
As with SII, these measures are standardized with mean zero and standard deviation 1 as are
all other predictors for comparability. For out-of-sample tests, MC and MD are computed
recursively using only the data available up to time t to avoid look-ahead bias.
3.1. Summary statistics
Over the period January 1984 to December 2014, as shown in Table 1, margin debt has a
mean value of $153.08 billion and a mean MD/GDP ratio of 1.36%. Margin credit has a
mean level of $73.10 billion and a mean MC/GDP ratio of 0.58%. All of the highest 10
values of the ratio of margin credit to GDP occur in 2008 with the peak, 2.6%, occurring
in October of 2008. Figure 1 shows that margin credit to GDP remains low through the
1980s and 1990s with the exception of a spike in 1987. It shows a large increase in late 2000
before the “Dotcom Bubble” burst of 2001 and again before the 2008 financial crisis. This
behavior is similar to that for SII and as such we expect margin credit to GDP and SII to
be correlated.
Table 2 displays Pearson correlation statistics for the 14 Goyal and Welch variables, the
Buﬀett Valuation Indicator, SII, SIPLS, MC and MD. Indeed MC and SII are correlated with
coeﬃcient of 0.58 indicating that margin long investors are holding cash buﬀers at the same
time that heavy short trading occurs. This coeﬃcient is even higher than the correlation of
MC with MD giving some early indication that the changes in MC are not simply mechanical
movements related to changes in margin debt. Additionally, MC is largely unrelated to the
Buﬀett Valuation Indicator which in turn is not highly related to next month returns. MC
is positively correlated with SI PLS with coeﬃcient of 0.34. So margin investors are also
being conservative when investor sentiment is high. MC also shows the largest magnitude
of correlation – -0.25 –with next months returns, an early indication of predictive power of
MC.
4 Return predictability tests
4.1 In-sample tests
Following the literature, we estimate a predictive regression of the following form:
rt:t+H = α+ βxt + ϵt:t+H, (1)
where rt:t+H is the average monthly S&P 500 log excess return for month t+ 1 to month
t+H, and xt the predictor variable which part of investors’ information set at time t. We test
for return predictability at monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual frequency by setting
value of H to 1, 3, 6 and 12. For H >1, returns on the RHS of Equation (1) overlap and
OLS t-statistics are overstated. To deal with this problem we follow the approach in Britten-
Jones, Neuberger, and Nolte (2011)). They show that regression of overlapping observations
of N-period return on a set of X variables can, instead, be estimated using a transformed,
equivalent representation of regression of one-period return on aggregation of N lags of the
X variables. They also show that their methodology retains the asymptotic validity of
conventional inference procedure and has better properties in finite sample compared to the
use of standard heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation-adjusted robust t-statistics correct
for overlapping observations.
Table 3 reports the coeﬃcients, t-statistics and R2 for 14 popular predictors examined by
Welch and Goyal (2008), the Buﬀett indicator, SII, SII PLS, and our variables MD and MC
for the sample period 1984 to 2014. Following Inoue and Kilian (2005), we use a one-sided
test for the statistical significance of β based on its theoretically expected sign. Following
Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) and Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016), we base
our inference on empirical p-values calculated using a wild bootstrap procedure to address
the issues of regressor persistence and correlation between regressor innovations and excess
returns (see Stambaugh (1999)). 16 For ease of comparison across diﬀerent regressors, we
scale all RHS variables so that they all have a unit standard deviation.
Table 3 shows that out of the 14 Goyal and Welch variables, DP and DY have the
best performance, with significant in-sample βs at all horizons and R2 higher than the rest,
0.70%-0.80% at monthly horizons, rising to more than 10% at annual frequency. Consistent
with evidence in Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) and Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou
(2016), SI PLS and SII are even more impressive with larger beta coeﬃcients and higher R2
at all horizons. β for MD has the expected negative sign, as argued in Section 2. The ability
of MD to predict returns in-sample matches that of SII in terms of magnitude of β and R2,
even surpassing it occasionally, as it generates significantly larger R2 at annual frequency of
around 25% compared to around 17% for SII.
The variable that stands out in Table 3 is MC. At all horizons, theβfor MC substantially
bigger. MC also has the largest R2, often more than double the corresponding numbers for
the next best predictors, SII and MD. Standards of predictive return regressions established
in Campbell and Thompson (2008) suggest that a monthly R2 as low as 0.5% in a predictive
regression is economically significant. The monthly R2 of MC is over 6%. The economic
significance of β for MC of around 1.1 is also large. A one standard deviation higher value
of MC predicts a market return lower by 1.1%, or 25% of standard deviation in monthly
return.
16The p-values based on the wild bootstrap procedure accounts for the issues raised in Stambaugh (1999).
However, we also explicitly correct the bias in estimated β using a procedure in Stambaugh (1999). The
results are very similar as those reported in Table 3. The bias-corrected coeﬃcients are available from the
authors upon request.
Even though in-sample performance of MC is quite impressive, Bossaerts and Hillion
(1999), Goyal and Welch (2003), and Welch and Goyal (2008) show that in-sample per-
formance does not always translate into out-of-sample return predictability. So next, we
examine out-of-sample performance of MC.
4.2 Out-of-sample tests
Our results so far suggest robust in-sample predictability of aggregate stock returns by
margin credit. However, as Bossaerts and Hillion (1999) and Goyal and Welch (2003, 2008)
show that many robust in-sample predictors do no exhibit out-of-sample predictability. In
this section, we first show that margin credit is a robust out-of-sample return predictor. We
then use forecast encompassing tests to compare the information content of return prediction
by margin credit with that of other predictors.
Following Welch and Goyal (2008), we generate an equity premium prediction for t+ 1
by a predictor x at time t,
ˆrt+1 = ˆαt + ˆβtxt (2)
where ˆαt and ˆβt are estimated with information available only until time t. That is, we
estimate ˆαt and ˆβt by regressing {rs+1}t−1
s=1 on a constant and {x}t−1
s=1. We follow an expanding
window approach so that for the next period t+2, ˆrt+2 is estimated as ˆαt+1 + ˆβt+1xt+1, where
ˆαt+1 and ˆβt+1 by regressing {rs+1}t
s=1 on a constant and {x}t
s=1. We follow this process for
all subsequent months.
We consider all the predictors covered in the in-sample tests and two new combinations of
the Goyal and Welch variables. Timmermann (2006) and Rapach, Strauss, and Zhou (2010)
show that a simple combination of individual forecasts significantly improves predictability.
Thus, we also consider a equally-weighted combination of 14 individual forecasts from Goyal
and Welch variables. We call this forecast, GW MEAN. In a related work to improve fore-
casts, Campbell and Thompson (2008) recommend economically motivated sign restrictions
on ˆβt and ˆrt+1. Specifically, the strictest recommend setting ˆ rt+1 = 0, if ˆrt+1 turns out to
be negative is used. We call the equally-weighted combination of individual forecasts with
Campbell and Thompson (2008) restriction GW MEAN CT.
As in Welch and Goyal (2008), Rapach, Strauss, and Zhou (2010), Rapach and Zhou
(2013), Kelly and Pruitt (2013), Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015), Rapach, Ringgenberg,
and Zhou (2016) among others, we divide the total sample (1984:01 - 2014:12) in to initial
training period ( t = q months) and the remaining period ( t = q+ 1,q + 2,..,T ) for out-of-
sample forecast evaluation. We use the data for the first 10 years from January 1984 through
December 1993 for the first out-of-sample prediction for January 1994 ( t= q+ 1). We then
generate the subsequent periods’ predictions as outlined above.
We use the R2
OS statistic (Campbell and Thompson (2008)) to evaluate out-of-sample
predictions. R2
OS is defined as
R2
OS = 1 −MSFEx
MSFEh
(3)
where MSFEx is the mean squared forecast error when the variable x is used to generate
out-of-sample predictions. MSFEh is mean squared forecast error when the historical mean,
¯r, is used to generate out-of-sample predictions. Specifically, we define MSFEx as
MSFEx = 1
T −q
T−1∑
t=q
(rt+1 −ˆrt+1)2 (4)
Similarly, MSFEh is defined as,
MSFEh = 1
T −q
T−1∑
t=q
(rt+1 −¯rt+1)2 (5)
where ¯r is the historical mean of log excess returns. We obtain ¯r as
¯rt+1 = 1
t
t∑
s=1
rt (6)
R2
OS measures proportional reduction in MSFE when variable x is used to forecast
equity premium relative to historical average. An R2
OS > 0 suggests that MSFE based
on variable x is less than that based on historical mean. As in Rapach, Strauss, and Zhou
(2010) and Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016), among others, we evaluate the statistical
significance of R2
OS using Clark and West (2007) statistic. This statistic is also known as
the MSFE −adjustedstatistic and it follows the standard normal distribution.17 MSFE −
adjustedstatistic tests the null hypothesis that H0 : R2
OS ≤0 against HA : R2
OS >0.
Table 4 presents the out-of-sample results. At the monthly horizon of H=1, none of the
14 macroeconomic predictors considered in Welch and Goyal (2008) produce positive R2
OS.
GWMEAN and GWMEANCT are also negative. Consistent with Rapach, Ringgenberg,
and Zhou (2016), we find that short interest ( SII) generates positive and statistically sig-
nificant R2
OS of 1.16%. Short interest generates an even higher R2
OS of 2.17% when we start
the training period in 1973 ( SII 1973). SI PLS also has large and significant R2
OS in our
sample period at 2.5%-3.0%. MD does poorly with a negative R2
OS. While SII and SI PLS
beat the historical benchmark in MSFE terms, it is MC which exhibits the highest R2
OS of
17The Diebold and Mariano (1995) and West (1996) statistic has a nonstandard distribution for forecast
comparison across nested models. The historical benchmark model is a nested model that corresponds to
ˆβt = 0.
7.45% statistically significant at 1% level. MC also generates highest R2
OS at the quarterly,
semi-annual and annual horizons.
Table 5 examines the out-of-sample performance of the two halves of our sample as well
as during NBER contractions and expansions. MC has positive R2
OS and beats almost all
predictors in all four subsamples. Only EP and SI PLS 1965 have larger R2
OS than MC
during 1994-2004, and only SI PLS 1965 during NBER expansions.
We further assess the cumulative diﬀerence in squared forecast error ( CDSFE ) graphi-
cally (see, for instance, Welch and Goyal (2008), Rapach, Strauss, and Zhou (2010), Rapach
and Zhou (2013)). CDSFE is obtained over the out-of-sample period starting from t= q+1
to t= τ as
CDSFEτ =
τ∑
t=q
(rt+1 −¯rt+1)2 −
τ∑
t=q
(rt+1 −ˆrt+1)2 (7)
Recall that the initial training period is from t = 1 to t = q, so that the first out-of-
sample prediction starts at t = q+ 1. Figure 2 shows the time-series plot of CDSFE over
January 1994 to December 2014 for six variables: MC, MD, SII, SI PLS, GW MEAN,
and GW MEAN CT. A positive CDSFE indicates that the predictive model based on a
variable outperforms historical benchmark in terms of MSFE . For large part of the out-of-
sample period MC outperforms the historical mean. MC especially bests the historical mean
during and around recessions. During uncertainty high risk-version, margin credit is very
useful in asset allocation decisions. This is consistent with the evidence in other studies, such
as Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) that out-of-sample predictability is more significant
around recessions. Performance of SII and SI PLS also improves during recessions. The
GW combination forecasts and MD do not outperform the historical mean. Overall, based
on R2
OS and CDSFE , MC exhibits robust out-of-sample predictability.
4.3 Forecast encompassing tests
Our in-sample and out-of-sample results suggest that MC predicts stock returns better than
all predictors used in the literature. We now examine statistically the explanation for these
results based on forecast encompassing tests (Chong and Hendry (1986) and Fair and Shiller
(1990)). Forecast encompassing tests compare the information content of return forecasts of
a common dependent variable across predictive regressions of diﬀerent independent variables
(see for instance, Rapach, Strauss, and Zhou (2010), Rapach and Zhou (2013), and Rapach,
Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016)).
We form an optimal forecast as a convex combination of two forecasts for month t+ 1 as
ˆr∗
t+1 = (1 −λ)ˆr1,t+1 + λˆr2,t+1, (8)
where ˆr1,t+1 is the forecast based on the first variable, ˆr2,t+1 is the forecast based on the second
variable, and 0 ≤λ ≤1. If λ = 0, it suggests that the forecast ˆ r1,t+1 encompasses ˆr2,t+1.
In other words, the second variable does not have any information beyond the information
contained in the first variable to predict excess market returns. However, ifλ> 0, it suggests
that the forecast ˆr1,t+1 does not encompasses ˆr2,t+1 and both variable 1 and 2 have some
information not contained in the other that is useful to predict excess returns. We test the
null hypothesis that H0 : λ= 0 against the alternative that it is greater than zeroHA : λ> 0.
The statistical significance is based on the Harvey, Leybourne, and Newbold (1998) statistic.
We report combinations over monthly ( H = 1), quarterly ( H = 3), semi-annual ( H = 6)
and annual horizons (H = 12).
The values in 6 represent the λ’s for the predictors in the columns against the predictors
along the rows. The first predictor variable, generating ˆr1,t+1 is in column 1, while the second
predictor variable changes across the remaining columns. Focusing on monthly prediction
combinations (H = 1), the column under MC has large positive and statistically significant
λ’s with values of either 1 or very close to 1. In other words, predictions based on MC
encompass the predictions based on all other variables. These include MD, GW MEAN,
SII, SII 1973, SI PLS, and SI PLS 1965. Focusing on the last row, we find that none of
the predictions based on other variables have λ’s significantly diﬀerent from 0. Thus, none of
the other variables seem to provide additional information not already contained in MC. We
find similar evidence at longer horizon predictions.18 Margin credit has superior information
in comparison to other predictors for future excess market returns.
5 Asset allocation
Our out-of-sample results based R2
OS show that margin credit is a robust predictor of stock
returns which encompasses the information available in all other predictors with power.
This should allow an investor to profit more from a strategy based on MC than based on
any other predictor. As in Kandel and Stambaugh (1996), Campbell and Thompson (2008),
Ferreira and Santa-Clara (2011), and Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016), among others,
we consider a mean-variance investor who allocates money optimally, at the end of month
t, between a risky asset , the S&P500 index, and a risk-free asset based on out-of-sample
prediction of excess return. The investor re-balances portfolio at the monthly frequency.
We compute the certainty equivalent return (CER) gain and Sharpe Ratio for strategies
using each predictor. Specifically, at the end of month t, the investor optimally allocates the
18λ’s for quarterly ( H = 3), semi-annual (H = 6) and annual horizons ( H = 12) are not reported but are
available from the authors upon request.
following weight to equities during the month t+ 1:
wt = 1
γ
ˆrt+1
ˆσ2
t+1
(9)
where γ is the risk-aversion coeﬃcient, ˆrt+1 is the out-of-sample forecast of the simple excess
return, and ˆσ2
t+1 is the variance forecast. We follow Campbell and Thompson (2008) and
estimate ˆσ2
t+1 using monthly returns over a 10 year moving window. As in Rapach, Ringgen-
berg, and Zhou (2016), we restrict wt to lie between -0.5 and 1.5 and consider γ = 3. This
investor realizes an average utility of
ˆνx = ˆµx −1
2γˆσ2
x (10)
where ˆνx and ˆσ2
x are the mean and variance over the out-of-sample period for the return of
the portfolio formed using ˆrt+1 and ˆσ2
t+1. If however, the investor allocates money based on
the historical mean, she optimally allocates
wt = 1
γ
¯rt+1
ˆσ2
t+1
(11)
to equities during the month t+ 1 and realizes an average utility of
ˆνh = ˆµh −1
2γˆσ2
h (12)
where ˆµh and ˆσ2
h are the mean and variance over the out-of-sample period for the return of
the portfolio formed using ¯rt+1 and ˆσ2
t+1. The CER gain is given by the diﬀerence between νx
and νh. We multiply it by 12 to annualize the CER. The annualized CER can be interpreted
as the management fee that an investor will be willing to pay to have access to the equity
premium forecasts based on the predictor x instead of historical mean.
Table 7 shows that, consistent with out-of-sample predictability,SII, SI PLS, MC gen-
erate strong CER gains. Out of these predictors, margin credit generates highest annualized
CER gains of 9.55%. The second highest CER gain is generated by SI PLS around 7%-
7.5%. Thus margin credit outperforms the next best predictor by more than 2 percentage
points p.a. Margin credit also outperforms all other strategies in terms of Sharpe ratio. It
generates the highest Sharpe ratio of 1.0 nearly doubling the Sharpe ratio of the buy and
hold market return.
Table 7 shows results over diﬀerent subsamples as well as over NBER recessions and
expansion periods. During both the subsamples, 1994:01 to 2004:12 and 2005:01 to 2014:12,
margin credit outperforms other predictors both in terms of Sharpe ratio as well as CER
gains. We find similar results over NBER business cycles. The performance is particularly
spectacular during recessions. Out of the very few predictors that generate positive Sharpe
ratio, MC is the best with Sharpe ratio of 1.42, more than 6 times the Sharpe ratio for the
next best predictor. MC also performs the best with the highest CER gain, 50% more that
of SI PLS, the next best predictor. This is consistent with the earlier evidence in Figure 2
that shows that margin credit outperforms historical mean dramatically during recessions.
While the strategy for the mean-variance investor, that allows for shorting the S&P 500
can be easily implemented using S&P 500 futures, we also consider a long only strategy that
even retail investors can implement. Table 8 shows out-of-sample performance statistics for
a long only investor that invests either 100% in the equity market or 100% in the risk-free
asset. The investments weights are determined by the prediction of one month ahead excess
log return to the S&P 500. The investment weight is 1 in S&P 500, when the prediction is
positive and 0 otherwise. Buy and hold corresponds to the investor passively holding the
market portfolio.
We find that using this very simple switching strategy between the equities and risk-free
asset, a long only investor realizes the highest Sharpe Ratio utilizing the predictions based
on margin credit. Over the full out-of-sample from 1994:01 to 2014:12, the investor realizes
a Sharpe Ratio of 0.92. SI PLS 1965 does almost as well with 0.90. Both have CER gains
of around 5% p.a. Over the subsamples and as well as NBER business cycles, MC and
SI PLS 1965 continues to be the two best predictors, consistently generating higher Sharpe
ratios and CER gains than the other predictors.
6 Economic channels
A fundamental relationship in finance is that the value of a stock is the discounted present
value of the future expected cash flows. Thus, stock return for any period can result from
change in the discount rate or change in the expectations of the cash flows or both. Then
a variable that predicts lower stock market return must either predict an increase in the
discount rate or a decrease in cash flow expectations or both.
We have seen so far that MC predicts aggregate stock market return with a negative
sign. If its predictive ability comes from the discount rate channel, MC must predict an
increase in the discount rate. This is plausible. A higher value of MC means the investors
are choosing not to reinvest in the stock market and holding cash instead - a reduction in the
eﬀective leverage. Ang, Gorovyy, and van Inwegen (2011) find that hedge funds’ leverage
decreased in mid-2007 prior to the financial crisis. They show that hedge fund reduce their
leverage in response to increased riskiness of the assets - a strategy consistent with hedge
funds targeting a particular risk profile. They reduce their exposure if the risk goes up. The
evidence in Agarwal, Ruenzi, and Weigert (2016) shows that before the 2008 crisis, hedge
funds reduced their exposure to tail risk. Margin investors could also be following a similar
strategy. This withdrawal from risky assets by investors who are usually willing to bear
risk means the overall risk-bearing capacity of the market goes down, pushing up the risk
premium and the discount rate.
Liu and Mello (2011) also report that, just prior to the 2008 market crash, hedge funds
reduced their risky investments and increased their allocation to cash. To explain such a
phenomenon, they present a model where hedge funds act conservatively when faced with a
risk of run by their investors. Consistent with this notion, Ben-David, Franzoni, and Mous-
sawi (2012) find that reduction in hedge funds’ stock holdings during the 2007-8 crisis was
primarily due to redemptions and pressure from their lenders. If the margin long investors
are managing money on behalf of others, they may face trade-oﬀs similar to the hedge funds.
They may, thus, act conservatively when anticipating greater redemption risk and hold more
money as margin credit rather than reinvesting it. This conservative behavior when faced
with greater risk also results in higher risk premium and consequently a higher discount rate.
Note that for the above arguments to hold, the margin investors do not need to be the
marginal investors. They simply need to act on the basis of anticipated behavior of the
marginal investors for their actions to predict the discount rate.
On the other hand, predictive power of MC could also come from the cash flow channel.
Brunnermeier and Nagel (2004) find supportive evidence by showing that hedge funds suc-
cessfully timed price movements of technology stocks during the Nasdaq bubble. Theoretical
model in Dai and Sundaresan (2010) shows that hedge funds’ optimal leverage depends upon
Sharpe ratio of the assets. If Sharpe ratio goes down, either due to lower expected return –
cash flow channel – or higher standard deviation – discount rate channel. Thus, conserva-
tiveness on the part of margin investors could also reflect superior information about future
cash flows that has not been incorporated in the prices. The argument here is similar as in
the case of aggregate short interest. Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) provide evidence
that that ability of SII to predict aggregate returns comes about because short investors are
better informed about future cash flows. As we argue in Section 2, margin credit, as opposed
to margin debt, allows us to focus on winning investors which are likely to be sophisticated
investors. So it is possible that they pull back from reinvesting their gains when they expect
the future cash flows to be low. Then, the ability of MC to predict future returns would
come via the cash flow channel.
We use the approach in Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) to investigate whether the
discount rate channel or the cash flow channel or both play a role in the predictive ability
of MC.
Campbell and Shiller (1988) log-linearize the stock return and give the following approx-
imate identity:
Rt+1 = k+ DGt+1 −ρD/Pt+1 + D/Pt. (13)
Here Rt+1 is the aggregate stock market return from tto t+1. DGt+1 is the log aggregate
dividend-growth rate from from tto t+ 1. D/Pt is the log aggregate dividend price ratio at
time t. k and ρ are constants.
Based on the above equation, controlling for information already available in D/Pt, MC
predicting Rt+1 means it must forecast either D/Pt + 1 or DGt+1 or both. Arguments in
Cochrane (2008) and Cochrane (2011) suggest that the variation in dividend-price ratio
is mainly due to changes in the discount rate. Dividend growth captures the changes in
cash flows. Thus, Equation 13 formalizes the cash flow channel and discount rate channel
dichotomy. MC’s ability to predict the aggregate dividend-price ratio, our proxy of the
discount rate, would point to the discount rate channel. If it predicts aggregate dividend
growth rate, the channel would be cash flow predictability.
Following Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015), we run the following regressions,
Yt+1 = α+ βMCt + ψDPt + ηt+1, Y = Ret,DP,DG,EG,GDPG. (14)
Here, Retis the log excess return on the S&P 500 index (including dividends). DP is the
the log of 12-month dividend to price ratio for the S&P 500. DG and EG are the growth rates
of log aggregate dividends and log aggregate earnings respectively. GDPG is the growth rate
of log real GDP. DP, DG and EG are constructed from the data provided by Robert Shiller
on his website.19 In addition to the dividend growth, we use aggregate earnings growth rate
and real GDP growth rate as alternative measures of changes in cash flows. We run the
regressions in (14) at quarterly and annual frequency. Quarterly observations allow us to use
the information available at finer frequency. However, to avoid influence of strong seasonal
patterns, particularly in DG and EG, we run the regressions also at annual frequency.
Further, to use the information available monthly and yet retain the annual growth
rates to avoid the seasonality issue, we also run the regressions (except Y = GDPG)20 at
monthly frequency, with returns and growth rates measured as monthly averages over annual
19http://www.econ.yale.edu/ shiller/data.htm
20GDP numbers only change quarterly preventing a monthly calculation of GDP growth.
overlapping periods. These specifications are similar to the ones in our in-sample analysis
with H = 12 We again follow the methodology suggested in Britten-Jones, Neuberger, and
Nolte (2011) to transform the regression of overlapping observations ofY on Xto a regression
of monthly, non-overlapping observations of Y on the aggregation of lags of the X.21
Table 9 presents the results. For all frequencies, calculate Newey-West t-statistics, and
report the statistical significance based on wild boot-strapped p-values. First row in each
panel reports univariate regression of Rett+1 on MCt. Consistent with our in-sample results
discussed in Section 2, MC has predictive power at all frequencies. The second row in each
panel shows results for Equation (14) for Y = Ret - specification in Row 1 with DP added
as a control. We see that the coeﬃcient β in Row 2 has magnitude and significance very
similar that in Row 1. Thus MC retains its ability to predict return even after controlling
for DP. This is not surprising given the results in Table 6 on forecast encompassing tests.
There we find that for quarterly, semi-annual and annual frequencies, forecasts based on DP
do not provide any additional information over and above the forecasts based on MC.
Rows 3 onward in the panels in Table 9 present results of our investigations of the
economic channels. In all the panels, β for DP is positive and statistically significant. This
result is consistent with MC predicting the returns via the discount rate channel. It predicts
a lower return because it predicts a higher value of DP i.e. a higher discount rate.
We also find support for the cash flow channel. In all the panels, the coeﬃcients for
DG, EG and GDPG are negative and statistically significant. Thus, MC also captures
information about future cash flows. It predicts a lower return partly because it predicts
lower cash flow growth. This result is similar to those of Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015)
21Diﬀerences arise from allowing more observations in the tests here. While the in-sample transformed
regressions are restricted to drop end of sample observations as the overlapping in-sample specifications do.
and Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) that SI PLS and SII predict return via the cash
flow channel. From the forecast encompassing tests (Section 4.3), we know that at quarterly,
semi-annual and annual frequencies, MC contains all the information in SII and SI PLS that
is relevant for forecasting returns. Thus, it is reasonable that, just like SII and SI PLS, it
contains the information about future cash flows. Overall, both the discount rate channel
and cash flow channel information contribute to MC’s very strong ability to predict future
returns.
7 Conclusion
Our study finds that margin credit, excess debt capacity of investors buying on the margin,
is a powerful predictor of future excess market returns. After taking out a statistically
significant trend, a one standard deviation higher margin credit predicts that future return
would be lower by 70 to 110 basis points per month. Over a period from 1984 to 2014, MC
produces R2 for an in-sample predictive regression ranging from 6% at monthly horizons to
27% at annual horizons. These numbers are often more than twice as large as the R2 of the
best predictors, old and new, previously suggested in the literature. In the out-of-sample
tests over a period from 1994 to 2014, MC again outperforms other predictive variables by
large margins. Moreover, once we consider the information in MC, the other predictors don’t
provide any additional information relevant for forecasting. A trading strategy based on MC
generates 9.5% annualized CER gains, relative to a strategy based on the historical equity
premium.
Substantial predictive power of MC is partly due to its ability to successfully predict and
hence avoid substantial parts of the market downturns of the early 2000s and 2008. Out of
the 12 worst months for S&P 500 in our sample, an MC-based strategy generated positive
returns during 7 months by shorting the market.
Large values of MC result from the levered long investors’ decision not to reinvest their
gains. This conservatism may be a sign that they expect risk and hence discount rate to be
higher or future cash flows to be lower. We find the ability of MC to predict future returns
comes via both discount rate and cash flow channels.
Our study extends a recent strand of return predictability literature that strives to ex-
tract information from the beliefs and actions of a subset of investors. We show that the
information extracted from the actions of winning, levered long investors has substantial
information about future cash flows as well as discount rates. Timing the market based on
this information produces large gains for the investors.
References
Agarwal, Vikas, Stefan Ruenzi, and Florian Weigert, 2016, Tail Risk in Hedge Funds: A
Unique View from Portfolio Holdings, Journal of Financial Economicsp. Forthcoming.
Ang, Andrew, Sergiy Gorovyy, and Gregory B. van Inwegen, 2011, Hedge fund leverage,
Journal of Financial Economics102, 102–126.
Baker, Malcolm, and Jeﬀrey Wurgler, 2006, Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock
returns, Journal of Finance61, 1645–1680.
Ben-David, Itzhak, Francesco Franzoni, and Rabih Moussawi, 2012, Hedge fund stock trading
in the financial crisis of 20072009, Review of Financial Studies25, 1–54.
Bossaerts, Peter, and Pierre Hillion, 1999, Implementing statistical criteria to select return
forecasting models: what do we learn?, Review of Financial Studies12, 405–428.
Britten-Jones, Mark, Anthony Neuberger, and Ingmar Nolte, 2011, Improved inference in
regression with overlapping observations, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting38,
657–683.
Brunnermeier, Markus K., and Stefan Nagel, 2004, Hedge funds and the technology bubble,
Journal of Finance59, 2013–2040.
Campbell, John Y., and Robert J. Shiller, 1988, The dividend-price ratio and expectations
of future dividends and discount factors, Review of Financial Studies1, 195–228.
Campbell, John Y., and Samuel B. Thompson, 2008, Predicting excess stock returns out
of sample: Can anything beat the historical average?, Review of Financial Studies 21,
1509–1531.
Chen, Yong, and Bing Liang, 2007, Do market timing hedge funds time the market?,Journal
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis42, 827–856.
Chong, Yock Y, and David F Hendry, 1986, Econometric evaluation of linear macro-economic
models, Review of Economic Studies53, 671–690.
Clark, Todd E, and Kenneth D West, 2007, Approximately normal tests for equal predictive
accuracy in nested models, Journal of econometrics138, 291–311.
Cochrane, John H., 2008, The dog that did not bark: A defense of return predictability,
Review of Financial Studies21, 1533–1575.
, 2011, Presidential address: Discount rates, Journal of Finance66, 1047–1108.
Dai, John, and Suresh Sundaresan, 2010, Risk management framework for hedge funds: Role
of funding and redemption options on leverage, Columbia University Working Paper.
Diebold, Francis X, and Robert S Mariano, 1995, Comparing predictive accuracy, Journal
of Business & Economic Statistics13, 253–263.
Fair, Ray C, and Robert J Shiller, 1990, Comparing information in forecasts from econometric
models, American Economic Review3, 375–389.
Fama, Eugene F., 1970, Eﬃcient capital markets: A review of theory and empirical work,
Journal of Finance25, 383–417.
, 1991, Eﬃcient capital markets: II, Journal of Finance46, 1575–1617.
Ferreira, Miguel A, and Pedro Santa-Clara, 2011, Forecasting stock market returns: The
sum of the parts is more than the whole, Journal of Financial Economics100, 514–537.
Garleanu, Nicolae, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2011, Margin-based asset pricing and deviations
from the law of one price, Review of Financial Studies24, 1980–2022.
Goyal, Amit, and Ivo Welch, 2003, Predicting the equity premium with dividend ratios,
Management Science 49, 639–654.
Griﬃn, John M., and Jin Xu, 2009, How smart are the smart guys? a unique view from
hedge fund stock holdings, Review of Financial Studies22, 2531–2570.
Harvey, David I, Stephen J Leybourne, and Paul Newbold, 1998, Tests for forecast encom-
passing, Journal of Business & Economic Statistics16, 254–259.
Harvey, David I., Stephen J. Leybourne, and A. M Robert Taylor, 2007, A simple, robust
and powerful test of the trend hypothesis, Journal of Econometrics141, 1302–1330.
He, Zhiguo, Bryan Kelly, and Asaf Manela, 2016, Intermediary Asset Pricing: New Evidence
From Many Asset Classes, .
He, Zhiguo, and Arvind Krishnamurthy, 2013, Intermediary Asset Pricing, American Eco-
nomic Review 103, 732–770.
Huang, Dashan, Fuwei Jiang, Jun Tu, and Guofu Zhou, 2015, Investor sentiment aligned: A
powerful predictor of stock returns, Review of Financial Studies28, 791–837.
Inoue, Atsushi, and Lutz Kilian, 2005, In-sample or out-of-sample tests of predictability:
Which one should we use?, Econometric Reviews23, 371–402.
Kandel, Shmuel, and Robert F Stambaugh, 1996, On the predictability of stock returns: An
asset-allocation perspective, Journal of Finance51, 385–424.
Kelly, Bryan, and Seth Pruitt, 2013, Market expectations in the cross-section of present
values, The Journal of Finance68, 1721–1756.
Kruttli, Mathias S., Andrew J. Patton, and Tarun Ramadorai, 2015, The impact of hedge
funds on asset markets, Review of Asset Pricing Studies5, 185–226.
Kwiatkowski, Denis, Peter C.B. Phillips, Peter Schmidt, and Yongcheol Shin, 1992, Test-
ing the null hypothesis of stationarity against the alternative of a unit root, Journal of
Econometrics 54, 159 – 178.
Liu, Xuewen, and Antonio S. Mello, 2011, The fragile capital structure of hedge funds and
the limits to arbitrage, Journal of Financial Economics102, 491–506.
Ng, Serena, and Pierre Perron, 2001, Lag Length Selection and the Construction of Unit
Root Tests with Good Size and Power, Econometrica 69, 1519–1554.
Perron, Pierre, and Tomoyoshi Yabu, 2009, Estimating deterministic trends with an inte-
grated or stationary noise component, Journal of Econometrics151, 56–69.
Rapach, David, and Guofu Zhou, 2013, Forecasting stock returns, in Graham Elliott, and Al-
lan Timmermann, ed.: Handbook of Economic Forecasting, vol. 2A . pp. 327–383 (Elsevier
B.V.).
Rapach, David E., Matthew C. Ringgenberg, and Guofu Zhou, 2016, Short interest and
aggregate stock returns, Journal of Financial Economics, Forthcoming.
Rapach, David E., Jack K. Strauss, and Guofu Zhou, 2010, Out-of-sample equity premium
prediction: Combination forecasts and links to the real economy, Review of Financial
Studies 23, 821–862.
Rappoport, Peter, and Eugene N White, 1994, Was the Crash of 1929 Expected?, American
Economic Review 84, 271–281.
Rytchkov, Oleg, 2014, Asset Pricing with Dynamic Margin Constraints, Journal of Finance
69, 405–452.
Stambaugh, Robert F., 1999, Predictive regressions, Journal of Financial Economics 54,
375–421.
Timmermann, Allan, 2006, Forecast combinations, in Handbook of Economic Forecasting,
vol. 1 . pp. 135–196 (Elsevier).
Welch, Ivo, and Amit Goyal, 2008, A comprehensive look at the empirical performance of
equity premium prediction, Review of Financial Studies21, 1455–1508.
West, Kenneth D, 1996, Asymptotic inference about predictive ability, Econometrica 4,
1067–1084.
Figure 1: Margin credit: 1983-2014
This figure plots growth of (a) margin credit/GDP, and (b) detrended margin credit/GDP.
The shaded vertical regions show NBER dates recessions.
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016
MC/GDP(%)
Margin Credit Scaled By GDP
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016
MC/GDP(%)
Detrended Margin Credit Scaled By GDP
Figure 2: Cumulative diﬀerence in squared forecast error: 1994-01 to 2014-12
This figure plots cumulative diﬀerence in squared forecast errors for the historical average benchmark and out-of-sample forecasts based on individual
predictors. The individual predictors are margin credit ( MC), margin debt ( MD), short interest index in Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016) ( SII),
investor sentiment aligned in Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) ( SI PLS), an equally-weighted combination of forecasts based on Goyal and Welch 14
predictors (GW MEAN), and modified mean as suggested in Campbell and Thompson (2008) ( GW MEANCT ). The shaded regions correspond to NBER
recessions.
GW MEAN GW MEAN CT
SII SI_PLS
MD MC
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014
Figure 3: Cumulative returns to $1: mean-variance investor
This figure plots cumulative returns (sum of logs) for an out-of-sample strategy for a mean-
variance investor that invests in S&P500 and T-bills with weights that lie in the interval
[-0.5,1.5].
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014
Cummulative Log Return
Strategy
MC
BUY AND HOLD
Log Returns to $1
Figure 4: Worst and best months: mean-variance investor
This figure shows returns in worst and best months for an out-of-sample strategy for a mean-
variance investor that invests in S&P500 and T-bills with weights that lie in the interval
[-0.5,1.5].
−20
−10
Oct−08 Aug−98 Sep−02 Feb−09 Feb−01 Sep−08 Jun−08 Jan−09 Sep−01 May−10 Nov−00 Jul−02
Month
Return
Strategy
SP500
MC
(a) Lowest S&P500 return months
−5
Nov−96 Apr−01 Nov−01 Oct−98 Jul−97 Apr−03 Mar−09 Oct−02 Sep−10 Apr−09 Mar−00 Oct−11
Month
Return
Strategy
SP500
MC
(b) Highest S&P500 return months
Figure 5: Cumulative Returns to $1: long only investor
This figure plots cumulative returns (sum of logs) for an out-of-sample strategy for a long
only investor that invests in S&P500 or T-bills.
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014
Cummulative Log Return
Strategy
MC
BUY AND HOLD
Log Returns to $1
Figure 6: Worst and best months: long only investor
This figure shows returns in worst and best months for an out-of-sample strategy for a long
only investor that invests in S&P500 or T-bills.
−15
−10
−5
Oct−08 Aug−98 Sep−02 Feb−09 Feb−01 Sep−08 Jun−08 Jan−09 Sep−01 May−10 Nov−00 Jul−02
Month
Return
Strategy
SP500
MC
(a) Lowest S&P500 return months
Nov−96 Apr−01 Nov−01 Oct−98 Jul−97 Apr−03 Mar−09 Oct−02 Sep−10 Apr−09 Mar−00 Oct−11
Month
Return
Strategy
SP500
MC
(b) Highest S&P500 return months
TABLE 1: Summary statistics
The table displays summary statistics for 14 predictor variables from Goyal and Welch (2008) and aggregate
short interest. DP is the log dividend-price ratio, DY is the log dividend yield, EP is the log earnings-price
ratio, DE is the log dividend-payout ratio, RVOL is the volatility of excess stock returns, BM is the book-to-
market value ratio for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, NTIS is net equity expansion, TBL is the interest
rate on a three-month Treasury bill, LTY is the long-term government bond yield, LTR is the return on
long-term government bonds, TMS is the long-term government bond yield minus the Treasury bill rate,
DFY is the diﬀerence between Moody’s BAA- and AAA-rated corporate bond yields, DFR is the long-term
corporate bond return minus the long-term government bond return, and INFL is inflation calculated from
the CPI for all urban consumers. EWSI, constructed by Rapach, Ringgenberg, and Zhou (2016), is the
equal-weighted mean across all firms of the number of shares held short in a given firm normalized by each
firm’s shares outstanding. The data for raw short interest and shares outstanding are from Compustat and
CRSP, respectively. EWSI includes all publicly listed stocks on U.S. exchanges, ADRs, ETFs, and REITs,
after excluding assets with a stock price below $5 per share and assets that are below the fifth percentile
breakpoint of NYSE market capitalization. SII is the detrended log of EWSI, constructed by removing a
linear trend from the log of EWSI; SII is standardized to have a standard deviation of one. SI PLS is the
sentiment index created by Huang, Jiang, Tu, and Zhou (2015) based on the partial least square approach
from the 6 sentiment proxies from Baker and Wurgler (2006). MCAP/GDP is the ratio of the CRSP total
market capitalization to GDP. Margin Debit is the total amount borrowed by investors with margin accounts
at NYSE member organizations used to take margin long positions, in millions of dollars. Margin credit is the
total amount available for withdrawal held by investors in margin accounts at NYSE member organizations,
in millions of dollars. MD/GDP and MC/GDP are the ratios of margin debt and margin credit to GDP
respectively. The sample period is from 1984:01 to 2014:12.
Statistic N Mean St. Dev. Min Max
DP 372 −3.80 0.36 −4.52 −3.02
DY 372 −3.79 0.36 −4.53 −3.02
EP 372 −3.01 0.41 −4.84 −2.22
DE 372 −0.79 0.40 −1.24 1.38
RVOL 372 0.15 0.05 0.05 0.32
B/M 372 0.34 0.14 0.12 0.80
NTIS 372 0.01 0.02 −0.06 0.05
TBL 372 3.85 2.70 0.01 10.47
LTY 372 6.30 2.35 2.06 13.81
LTR 372 0.83 3.01 −11.24 14.43
TMS 372 2.45 1.27 −0.41 4.55
DFY 372 1.01 0.40 0.55 3.38
DFR 372 −0.02 1.57 −9.75 7.37
INFL 372 0.23 0.26 −1.77 1.38
EWSI 372 2.79 1.93 0.45 8.92
SI PLS 372 −0.24 0.77 −1.18 3.03
MCAP/GDP 372 101.75 35.54 45.61 184.90
Margin Debt ($M) 372 153,078.60 117,861.30 21,790 465,720
Margin Credit ($M) 372 73,103.74 74,052.88 1,670 385,850
MD/GDP (%) 372 1.36 0.61 0.49 2.84
MC/GDP (%) 372 0.58 0.47 0.04 2.57
TABLE 2: Correlations
The table displays Pearson correlation coeﬃcients for 14 predictor variables from Goyal and Welch (2008), the short interest index (SII), the sentiment index
based on a partial least squares approach (SI PLS), and the de-trended ratios of margin debt and margin credit to GDP. See the notes to Table 1 for the
variable definitions and sample description.
MCAP
DP DY EP DE RVOL B/M NTIS TBL LTY LTR TMS DFY DFR INFL SII SI PLS /GDP MD MC RET t+1
DP 1.00
DY 0.99 1.00
EP 0.46 0.46 1.00
DE 0.43 0.42 -0.60 1.00
RVOL -0.10 -0.09 -0.50 0.42 1.00
B/M 0.87 0.86 0.62 0.15 -0.14 1.00
NTIS -0.22 -0.22 -0.12 -0.08 -0.10 -0.25 1.00
TBL 0.46 0.47 0.45 -0.04 -0.17 0.45 -0.10 1.00
LTY 0.67 0.67 0.42 0.17 -0.08 0.64 0.02 0.88 1.00
LTR 0.08 0.08 0.08 -0.01 -0.02 0.10 -0.05 0.07 0.01 1.00
TMS 0.25 0.24 -0.18 0.40 0.21 0.23 0.25 -0.49 -0.03 -0.13 1.00
DFY 0.40 0.39 -0.25 0.61 0.41 0.39 -0.54 -0.10 0.04 0.04 0.29 1.00
DFR 0.00 0.03 -0.14 0.14 0.14 -0.01 0.03 -0.05 0.01 -0.52 0.13 0.10 1.00
INFL 0.11 0.11 0.22 -0.12 -0.10 0.13 0.00 0.27 0.25 -0.04 -0.10 -0.22 -0.11 1.00
SII -0.01 -0.02 -0.12 0.11 -0.06 -0.10 -0.36 0.06 -0.01 -0.02 -0.16 0.16 -0.07 0.15 1.00
SI PLS -0.14 -0.16 -0.19 0.07 0.15 -0.07 0.00 0.24 0.23 0.03 -0.07 0.16 -0.04 -0.07 -0.15 1.00
MCAP/GDP -0.90 -0.90 -0.37 -0.42 0.00 -0.72 0.03 -0.50 -0.72 -0.04 -0.27 -0.24 -0.06 -0.15 -0.02 0.20 1.00
MD -0.40 -0.41 0.05 -0.40 -0.04 -0.21 -0.11 0.25 0.04 0.04 -0.45 -0.24 -0.15 0.04 -0.16 0.49 0.54 1.00
MC 0.04 0.01 -0.10 0.13 0.03 0.07 -0.56 0.07 0.08 -0.02 0.01 0.45 -0.15 0.06 0.58 0.34 0.11 0.22 1.00
RETt+1 0.09 0.09 0.07 0.00 0.04 0.06 0.03 0.00 -0.01 0.04 -0.01 -0.04 0.09 0.05 -0.13 -0.16 -0.09 -0.12 -0.25 1.00
TABLE 3: In-sample predictive regressions
In-sample predictive regression estimation results, 1984:01-2014:12. The table reports the ordinary least squares estimate of β and R 2 statistic for the
predictive regression model (-) indicates that we take the negative of the predictor variable. See the notes for Table 1 for the variable definitions and sample
description. Each predictor variable is standardized to have a standard deviation of one. Variables with expected negative betas are denoted with (-) all
other variables are expected to have positive beta. Reported t-statistics are heteroskedasticity and auto-correlation robust for testing H 0 : b = 0 against H A
: b > 0 for variables with positive expected beta and H A : b < 0 for variables with negative expected beta; ∗, ∗∗ and ∗∗∗ indicate significance at the 10%,
5%, and 1% levels, respectively, according to wild bootstrapped p -values.
β t-stat R 2(%)
H=1 H=3 H=6 H=12 H=1 H=3 H=6 H=12 H=1 H=3 H=6 H=12
DP(+) 0.372 ∗∗ 0.401∗∗ 0.426∗∗∗ 0.441∗∗ 1.614 1.913 2.14 2.275 0.713 2.352 5.166 10.909
DY(+) 0.404 ∗∗ 0.408∗∗ 0.428∗∗∗ 0.445∗∗∗ 1.806 1.964 2.153 2.269 0.838 2.438 5.224 11.09
EP(+) 0.318 ∗ 0.265∗ 0.236 0.251 0.988 0.81 0.72 0.924 0.521 1.03 1.587 3.53
DE(+) 0.011 0.091 0.143 0.142 0.033 0.323 0.593 0.842 0.001 0.12 0.583 1.124
RVOL(+) 0.176 0.132 0.09 0.041 0.854 0.695 0.482 0.273 0.159 0.255 0.228 0.094
B/M(+) 0.267 0.326 ∗∗ 0.38∗∗ 0.39∗∗ 1.213 1.614 1.91 2.023 0.366 1.563 4.115 8.572
NTIS(-) 0.131 0.236 0.263 0.248 0.442 0.763 0.765 0.795 0.088 0.815 1.969 3.448
TBL(-) -0.036 -0.013 -0.013 -0.042 -0.151 -0.036 -0.005 -0.07 0.007 0.002 0.005 0.092
LTY(+) -0.066 -0.02 0.019 0.091 -0.273 -0.069 0.141 0.573 0.022 0.006 0.01 0.435
LTR(+) 0.189 0.062 0.149 ∗∗ 0.088∗∗ 0.814 0.377 1.532 2.009 0.184 0.057 0.626 0.427
TMS(+) -0.045 -0.01 0.062 0.244 ∗ -0.203 -0.047 0.262 1.267 0.01 0.001 0.108 3.328
DFY(+) -0.164 -0.082 0.085 0.148 -0.442 -0.217 0.296 0.752 0.139 0.098 0.205 1.207
DFR(+) 0.398 ∗∗ 0.164∗∗ 0.13∗∗ 0.078∗ 1.026 0.843 1.037 0.696 0.815 0.394 0.48 0.335
INFL(-) 0.207 -0.042 -0.184 ∗ -0.211∗∗ 0.697 -0.156 -1.404 -1.716 0.219 0.026 0.959 2.478
SII(-) -0.577 ∗∗∗ -0.65∗∗∗ -0.674∗∗∗ -0.577∗∗ -2.38 -2.471 -2.297 -1.811 1.689 6.013 12.24 16.63
SI PLS(-) -0.718 ∗∗∗ -0.619∗∗∗ -0.485∗∗ -0.385∗∗ -2.923 -3.02 -2.624 -2.084 2.649 5.612 6.686 8.207
MCAP/GDP(-) -0.39 ∗∗ -0.413∗∗∗ -0.448∗∗∗ -0.504∗∗∗ -1.72 -1.928 -2.116 -2.228 0.775 2.443 5.485 13.285
MD(-) -0.513 ∗∗ -0.572∗∗ -0.624∗∗∗ -0.683∗∗∗ -2.215 -2.79 -3.239 -3.477 1.347 4.744 10.849 24.908
MC(-) -1.106 ∗∗∗ -1.047∗∗∗ -1.015∗∗∗ -0.715∗∗∗ -3.608 -4.147 -4.178 -2.392 6.25 15.808 28.447 27.288
TABLE 4: Out-of-sample predictability
This table shows out-of-sample R2 (R2
OS) at monthly, quarterly, half-yearly and annual horizons in second
through fifth columns. Statistical significance is based on the Clark and West (2007) statistic for testing the
null hypothesis that H0 : R2
OS ≤0 against HA : R2
OS >0. *, **, and *** indicate significance levels at 10%,
5%, and 1%, respectively. The out-of-sample period is 1994-01 to 2014-12.
R2
OS(%) t-stat
H=1 H=3 H=6 H=12 H=1 H=3 H=6 H=12
DP -1.33 -3.189 -5.07 -15.847 -0.384 -0.169 -0.225 -1.917
DY -1.197 -2.236 -3.887 -13.768 -0.232 0.030 -0.041 -1.732
EP -1.022 -6.387 -14.074 -16.838 0.351 0.023 -0.330 -0.259
DE -2.001 -7.832 -12.347 -11.558 -0.268 -1.072 -1.988 -1.045
RVOL -0.229 -1.129 -2.521 -6.192 -0.394 -1.607 -2.063 -2.246
B/M -0.441 -0.601 -0.784 -7.095 -0.320 0.214 0.401 -1.566
NTIS -1.078 -2.667 -5.645 -5.595 -0.944 -1.279 -2.607 -2.736
TBL -0.856 -3.197 -6.595 -9.707 -0.597 -1.040 -1.893 -4.030
LTY -0.779 -2.419 -5.119 -13.409 -0.719 -1.222 -1.790 -3.206
LTR -0.374 -1.312 -0.879 -1.767 -0.437 -0.360 0.304 -0.760
TMS -0.53 -2.018 -4.022 -3.074 -0.828 -1.643 -2.489 -0.536
DFY -1.725 -7.465 -13.257 -8.726 -0.127 -0.776 -2.381 -4.393
DFR -2.302 -2.431 -1.914 -3.261 -0.117 -1.116 -0.655 -1.971
INFL -0.754 -2.301 -0.272 -0.721 -0.885 -1.389 0.027 0.086
GW MEAN -0.444 -1.886 -3.386 -5.058 -0.396 -1.150 -2.022 -4.368
GW MEAN CT -0.271 -0.523 -1.274 -3.911 -0.686 -0.486 -0.814 -1.731
SII 1.16 ∗∗∗ 4.552∗∗∗ 6.58∗∗∗ 3.924∗∗∗ 2.280 3.684 4.479 3.763
SII 1973 2.17 ∗∗∗ 7.725∗∗∗ 13.202∗∗∗ 17.371∗∗∗ 2.820 4.111 4.944 5.736
SI PLS 2.768 ∗∗∗ 6.169∗∗∗ 5.424∗∗∗ -5.418 2.300 2.992 2.925 -0.486
SI PLS 1965 2.953 ∗∗∗ 6.673∗∗∗ 8.907∗∗∗ 10.629∗∗∗ 3.034 3.900 4.400 4.483
MCAP/GDP -2.096 -3.274 -6.55 -20.7 -0.456 0.136 0.143 -1.384
MD -0.461 1.607 ∗ 4.392∗∗∗ 5.293∗∗∗ 0.420 1.619 2.390 2.772
MC 7.447 ∗∗∗ 19.316∗∗∗ 35.006∗∗∗ 35.676∗∗∗ 2.515 3.322 3.862 4.670
TABLE 5: Out-of-sample predictability: Subsamples
This table shows out-of-sample R2 (R2
OS) at monthly horizon for diﬀerent subsamples and over NBER
contractions and expansions. Statistical significance is based on the Clark and West (2007) statistic for
testing the null hypothesis that H0 : R2
OS ≤0 against HA : R2
OS > 0. *, **, and *** indicate significance
levels at 10%, 5%, and 1%, respectively.
1994-2004 2005-2014 Contractions Expansions
R2
OS(%) t-stat R2
OS(%) t-stat R2
OS(%) t-stat R2
OS(%) t-stat
DP -2.522 -0.580 0.067 0.316 0.359 0.300 -1.97 -0.632
DY -2.648 -0.620 0.505 0.742 1.235 0.747 -2.119 -0.708
EP 1.786 1.232 -4.312 -0.171 -3.57 0.114 -0.055 0.570
DE -0.547 0.072 -3.704 -0.297 -5.019 -0.193 -0.856 -0.302
RVOL -0.472 -0.893 0.056 0.332 -0.518 -1.381 -0.12 0.044
B/M -1.08 -0.704 0.308 0.746 0.886 1.011 -0.944 -0.967
NTIS -0.746 -0.467 -1.468 -0.827 -1.017 -0.323 -1.102 -1.085
TBL -0.778 -0.775 -0.949 -0.292 0.838 0.398 -1.499 -1.637
LTY -0.924 -0.634 -0.61 -0.385 0.552 0.374 -1.284 -1.247
LTR -0.504 -0.699 -0.223 -0.023 -0.312 -0.213 -0.398 -0.382
TMS -0.707 -0.632 -0.321 -0.598 0.075 0.149 -0.759 -0.948
DFY -1.406 -1.523 -2.098 0.070 -2.061 0.206 -1.597 -2.195
DFR -2.474 -0.723 -2.1 0.130 -4.586 -0.123 -1.436 -0.011
INFL -0.583 -0.567 -0.954 -0.680 -1.371 -0.683 -0.519 -0.579
GW MEAN -0.497 -0.708 -0.381 -0.141 -0.072 0.071 -0.585 -1.223
GW MEAN CT -0.486 -0.926 -0.018 -0.005 0.415 0.653 -0.531 -1.418
SII -0.487 0.154 3.09 ∗∗∗ 2.651 2.213 1.264 0.761 ∗∗ 1.940
SII 1973 -0.007 0.512 4.725 ∗∗∗ 2.936 3.9 ∗ 1.520 1.529 ∗∗∗ 2.439
SI PLS 1.51 1.184 4.242 ∗∗∗ 2.194 4.352 1.240 2.167 ∗∗ 1.850
SI PLS 1965 2.312 ∗∗ 1.708 3.705 ∗∗∗ 2.845 2.611 1.101 3.079 ∗∗∗ 2.764
MCAP/GDP -4.034 -0.940 0.175 0.715 2.777 ∗∗ 1.751 -3.944 -1.263
MD -2.058 -0.938 1.411 1.218 0.735 0.421 -0.914 0.216
MC 1.654 1.260 14.235 ∗∗∗ 2.228 20.218 ∗∗ 1.843 2.605 ∗∗∗ 2.344
TABLE 6: Forecast encompassing tests
This table shows estimated weights ( λ) on a convex combination of two forecasts ˆ r1,t+1 and ˆr2,t+1 for
month t+ 1. ˆr1,t+1 prediction is based on the prediction by the variable in column 1, while the ˆ r2,t+1
prediction is based on the prediction by the variable in rows. The convex combination is formed by ˆ r∗
t+1 =
(1 −λ)ˆr1,t+1 + λˆr2,t+1. The statistical significance is based on the Harvey, Leybourne, and Newbold (1998)
statistic for testing the null hypothesis that the weight on the row predictor based forecast is equal to zero
(H0 : λ = 0) against the alternative that it is greater than zero ( HA : λ >0); ∗ , ∗∗, and ∗∗∗ indicate
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. We report combination over monthly horizon
(H = 1). The sample period for forecast combination is 1994:01 to 2014:12.
λ values for ˆr∗
t+1 = (1 −λ)ˆr1,t+1 + λˆr2,t+1
ˆr2,t+1
H=1
ˆr1,t+1 MC MD SII SI PLS GW MEAN
HIST MEAN 1 ∗∗∗ 0.269 0.845 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0
DP 1 ∗∗∗ 0.795∗∗ 0.914∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1∗
DY 1 ∗∗∗ 0.752∗ 0.889∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1
EP 1 ∗∗∗ 0.567 0.795 ∗ 1∗∗ 0.682
DE 1 ∗∗∗ 0.763 1 ∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1
RVOL 1 ∗∗∗ 0.359 0.898 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0
B/M 1 ∗∗∗ 0.49 0.884 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0.492
NTIS 1 ∗∗∗ 0.742 0.96 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1∗
TBL 1 ∗∗∗ 0.607 0.983 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1
LTY 1 ∗∗∗ 0.595 1 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1
LTR 1 ∗∗∗ 0.464 0.896 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0.388
TMS 1 ∗∗∗ 0.525 0.992 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0.751
DFY 1 ∗∗∗ 0.74 0.912 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1
DFR 1 ∗∗∗ 0.867 1 ∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0.996
INFL 1 ∗∗∗ 0.619 0.976 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1
GW MEAN 1 ∗∗∗ 0.493 0.917 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗
GW MEAN CT 1 ∗∗∗ 0.408 0.904 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0
SII 1 ∗∗∗ 0.237 0.846 ∗∗ 0.083
SII 1973 1 ∗∗∗ 0 0 0.63 ∗ 0
SI PLS 0.912 ∗∗∗ 0 0.154 0
SI PLS 1965 0.883 ∗∗∗ 0 0.144 0.134 0
MCAP/GDP 1 ∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0.884∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗
MD 1 ∗∗∗ 0.763∗∗∗ 1∗∗∗ 0.507
MC 0 0 0.088 0
TABLE 7: Performance statistics for a mean-variance investor
The table reports the annualized certainty equivalent return (CER) gain (in percent) for a mean-variance investor with relative risk aversion coeﬃcient of
three who allocates between equities and risk-free bills using a predictive regression to forecast excess return based on the predictor variable in the first
column relative to the prevailing mean benchmark forecast. The equity weight is constrained to lie between -0.5 and 1.5. Buy and hold corresponds to the
investor passively holding the market portfolio.
1994:01 - 2014:12 1994:01 - 2004:12 2005:01 - 2014:12 NBER Contraction NBER Expansion
Ex Ret SD Sharpe CER Sharpe CER Sharpe CER Sharpe CER Sharpe CER
HIST MEAN 8.109 18.465 0.439 0.000 0.466 0.000 0.413 0.000 -0.921 0.000 0.686 0.000
DP 8.396 18.873 0.445 0.055 0.491 0.453 0.389 -0.377 -1.038 -1.982 0.700 0.320
DY 4.535 15.552 0.292 -2.067 0.230 -3.343 0.367 -0.678 -0.760 2.965 0.545 -2.715
EP 7.134 17.924 0.398 -0.686 0.450 -0.328 0.333 -1.065 -1.169 -1.812 0.659 -0.520
DE 8.639 18.004 0.480 0.778 0.520 1.169 0.440 0.360 -0.974 5.972 0.695 0.169
RVOL 6.675 18.179 0.367 -1.278 0.416 -0.985 0.304 -1.597 -1.254 -5.992 0.649 -0.669
B/M 8.430 19.061 0.442 -0.017 0.496 0.533 0.374 -0.614 -0.957 -3.203 0.704 0.372
NTIS 5.894 17.850 0.330 -1.880 0.428 -0.414 0.204 -3.482 -1.296 -12.811 0.669 -0.513
TBL 5.822 16.369 0.356 -1.207 0.409 -1.030 0.297 -1.379 -0.963 8.088 0.558 -2.322
LTY 8.121 18.839 0.431 -0.203 0.493 0.438 0.350 -0.891 -1.122 -2.297 0.686 0.081
LTR 6.737 17.542 0.384 -0.863 0.263 -3.295 0.528 1.790 -0.749 3.125 0.614 -1.374
TMS 7.759 16.247 0.478 0.792 0.547 1.852 0.389 -0.346 -1.221 3.019 0.746 0.557
DFY 5.883 17.360 0.339 -1.625 0.325 -2.772 0.385 -0.374 -0.853 7.584 0.527 -2.741
DFR 7.187 17.750 0.405 -0.538 0.446 -0.207 0.353 -0.900 -0.759 7.841 0.597 -1.561
INFL 7.888 18.793 0.420 -0.408 0.462 -0.033 0.366 -0.823 -0.856 -4.178 0.690 0.025
GW MEAN 8.054 17.399 0.463 0.513 0.485 0.452 0.463 0.589 -1.203 2.588 0.710 0.299
GW MEAN CT 7.875 18.145 0.434 -0.064 0.482 0.365 0.376 -0.526 -1.060 -1.785 0.699 0.162
SII 10.471 18.790 0.557 2.193 0.477 0.393 0.663 4.143 -0.854 7.371 0.765 1.582
SII 1973 11.271 16.866 0.668 4.033 0.464 0.380 0.933 8.040 0.155 32.078 0.729 0.669
SI PLS 14.606 16.829 0.868 7.380 0.753 5.709 1.038 9.198 0.220 34.099 0.932 4.185
SI PLS 1965 13.814 15.657 0.882 7.159 0.766 5.574 1.041 8.887 0.198 34.113 0.947 3.940
MCAP/GDP 3.006 14.420 0.208 -3.088 0.148 -4.934 0.327 -1.067 -0.548 16.268 0.344 -5.436
MD 7.936 19.026 0.417 -0.470 0.381 -1.390 0.458 0.513 -0.626 1.408 0.642 -0.750
MC 16.739 16.783 0.997 9.546 0.787 6.020 1.246 13.416 1.422 51.405 0.956 4.586
BUY AND HOLD 7.632 14.913 0.512 1.312 0.529 1.481 0.490 1.119 -0.809 7.245 0.791 0.583
TABLE 8: Performance statistics for a long-only investor
This table reports the annualized Sharpe ratio for a long only investor who allocates between equities and risk-free bills. The investments weights are
determined by the prediction of one month ahead excess log return to the SP500. The investment weight is 1 in SP500, when the prediction is positive and
0 otherwise. Buy and hold corresponds to the investor passively holding the market portfolio. Panel A shows the values for the full out-of-sample period
1994:01 to 2014:12 and two sub-periods. Panel B shows reports results for the NBER contraction and expansion periods covered by the out-of-sample period.
1994:01 - 2014:12 1994:01 - 2004:12 2005:01 - 2014:12 NBER Contraction NBER Expansion
Ex Ret SD Sharpe CER Sharpe CER Sharpe CER Sharpe CER Sharpe CER
HIST MEAN 7.632 14.913 0.512 0.000 0.529 0.000 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.791 0.000
DP 5.998 14.561 0.412 -1.354 0.339 -2.595 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.676 -1.533
DY 5.916 14.559 0.406 -1.436 0.329 -2.750 0.490 0.000 -0.847 -0.695 0.676 -1.533
EP 7.928 12.549 0.632 1.909 0.740 3.103 0.508 0.633 -0.736 15.217 0.835 0.317
DE 7.327 14.133 0.518 0.258 0.529 0.000 0.506 0.552 -1.003 5.559 0.767 -0.343
RVOL 7.632 14.913 0.512 0.000 0.529 0.000 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.791 0.000
B/M 7.211 14.745 0.489 -0.291 0.487 -0.559 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.768 -0.330
NTIS 7.791 14.106 0.552 0.745 0.548 0.331 0.558 1.206 -0.996 5.658 0.807 0.194
TBL 5.726 13.741 0.417 -1.083 0.462 -0.921 0.360 -1.241 -1.003 5.559 0.655 -1.860
LTY 7.599 14.356 0.529 0.375 0.529 0.000 0.529 0.792 -0.991 3.814 0.791 0.000
LTR 7.543 14.849 0.508 -0.042 0.529 0.000 0.482 -0.086 -0.939 -1.960 0.808 0.218
TMS 7.632 14.913 0.512 0.000 0.529 0.000 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.791 0.000
DFY 6.936 13.959 0.497 -0.004 0.490 -0.505 0.506 0.552 -1.003 5.559 0.745 -0.641
DFR 5.943 13.614 0.437 -0.762 0.411 -1.660 0.474 0.231 -1.148 3.959 0.698 -1.284
INFL 7.566 14.668 0.516 0.117 0.529 0.000 0.498 0.249 -0.785 3.201 0.772 -0.255
GW MEAN 6.946 14.448 0.481 -0.351 0.529 0.000 0.421 -0.722 -1.331 -2.418 0.791 0.000
GW MEAN CT 7.632 14.913 0.512 0.000 0.529 0.000 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.791 0.000
SII 7.632 14.913 0.512 0.000 0.529 0.000 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.791 0.000
SII 1973 8.626 13.893 0.621 1.740 0.511 -0.285 0.775 3.963 -0.071 22.751 0.730 -0.823
SI PLS 10.003 12.799 0.781 3.851 0.681 2.385 0.911 5.464 0.118 28.850 0.866 0.833
SI PLS 1965 11.263 12.570 0.896 5.243 0.882 4.976 0.910 5.548 0.118 28.850 0.998 2.393
MCAP/GDP 5.162 14.485 0.356 -2.145 0.339 -2.595 0.374 -1.656 -0.809 0.000 0.609 -2.426
MD 6.676 14.708 0.454 -0.806 0.515 -0.164 0.383 -1.499 -0.809 0.000 0.725 -0.912
MC 10.912 11.903 0.917 5.301 0.846 4.261 0.991 6.450 0.180 29.975 1.014 2.324
BUY AND HOLD 7.632 14.913 0.512 0.000 0.529 0.000 0.490 0.000 -0.809 0.000 0.791 0.000
TABLE 9: Forecasting discount rates and cash flows with margin credit
This table reports in-sample estimation results for the bivariate predictive regressions where DP is the log of
the 12 month dividend paid to SP500 price ratio DG log 12 month dividend growth rate, EG log 12 month
earnings growth rate and GDPG is the annual log real GDP growth rate. DP, EG, and DG are constructed
from the data provide by Schiller. We report the regression slopes, Newey-West t -statistics, as well as
R2’s. ∗ ,∗, and ∗∗∗ indicate significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively, based on one-sided wild
bootstrapped p -values. The sample period is over 19842014.
Panel A : Non-overlapping Quarterly Regressions (1984-2014)
MC DP
β t -stat ψ t -stat R 2(%)
Rett+1 -0.031∗∗∗ -5.699 0.210
Rett+1 -0.032∗∗∗ -5.928 0.012 ∗∗∗ 2.103 0.238
DP 0.079 ∗∗∗ 5.065 0.962 ∗∗∗ 59.509 0.968
DG -0.18 ∗∗ -2.076 -0.025 -0.279 0.036
EG -0.55 ∗∗∗ -7.564 0.019 0.257 0.323
GDPG -0.455 ∗∗∗ -5.857 0.093 1.165 0.225
Panel B : Non-overlapping Annual Regressions (1984-2014)
MC DP
β t -stat ψ t -stat R 2(%)
Rett+1 -0.115∗∗∗ -4.277 0.379
Rett+1 -0.131∗∗∗ -4.957 0.047 ∗∗ 2.590 0.495
DP 0.285 ∗∗ 3.326 0.827 ∗∗∗ 11.580 0.848
DG -0.358 ∗∗ -1.690 -0.075 -0.426 0.104
EG -0.493 ∗∗ -2.436 0.206 1.255 0.198
GDPG -0.612 ∗∗ -3.229 0.170 1.008 0.279
Panel C : Overlapping Annual Regressions (1984-2014)
MC DP
β t -stat ψ t -stat R 2(%)
Rett+1 -0.007∗∗∗ -2.392 NA 0.273
Rett+1 -0.009∗∗∗ -3.426 -0.001 -0.498 0.033
DP 0.27 ∗∗∗ 25.583 1.043 ∗∗∗ 98.889 0.965
DG -0.176 ∗∗∗ -3.139 0.003 0.036 0.031
EG -0.598 ∗∗∗ -12.905 -0.037 -0.815 0.342