From: Vokata, Petra
To: Comments, Public
Subject: Regulatory Notice 22-08: Comment on Effective Practices and Rule Enhancements of Complex Products
Date: Saturday, May 14, 2022 2:48:48 PM
Attachments: image001.png
SSRN-id3223427 (9).pdf
WARNING: External Sender! Exercise caution with links, attachments and
requests for login information.
To whom it may concern,

I understand that my comment comes past the deadline and therefore may be ignored.

Nevertheless, I would like to share my article “Engineering Lemons” concerning complex financial
products sold to retail investors. In particular, I study the pricing and performance of 28,000 yield
enhancement structured products (e.g. reverse convertibles, autocallables) and find that both their
expected and realized returns are, on average, negative. The average embedded annual fee is 5-7%
and many of the products are statewise dominated by listed options.

The paper (attached) is published in the Journal of Financial Economics [sciencedirect.com]
.

I am available for further information.

Best,
Petra Vokata

Petra Vokata
Assistant Professor of Finance
Fisher College of Business
836 Fisher Hall, 2100 Neil Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210
614-292-0868 Office
web: petravokata.com

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3223427Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3223427
Engineering lemons∗
Petra Vokata†
Ohio State University
October 2020
Abstract
Recent complex financial products sold to households contradict the basic
premise of canonical innovation theories: financial innovation benefits its
adopters. In my 2006–2015 sample of over 28,000 yield enhancement prod-
ucts (YEP) the securities oﬀer attractive yields butnegative returns. The
products lose money both ex ante and ex post due to their embedded fees: on
average, YEPs charge 6–7% in annual fees and subsequently lose 6–7% rel-
ative to risk-adjusted benchmarks. Simple and cheap combinations of listed
optionsoftenfirst-orderdominateYEPs. Competition, disclosure, orlearning
do not eliminate this inferior financial innovation over my sample period.
JEL Classification: G4, G13, G14, G18
Keywords: Household finance; financial innovation; hidden costs; complexity;
structured products.
∗I am grateful for comments received from George Aragon, Utpal Bhattacharya, Amit Goyal, To-
bin Hanspal, Harrison Hong, Matti Ilmanen, Matti Keloharju, Samuli Knüpfer, Juhani Linnainmaa,
Brigitte Madrian, Adair Morse, Toby Moskowitz, Mikko Niemenmaa, Peter Nyberg, Terrance Odean,
Neil Pearson, Vesa Puttonen, David Sraer, Antti Suhonen, Matti Suominen, Boris Vallée, Annette
Vissing-Jørgensen, Tuomo Vuolteenaho, and seminar participants at the European Finance Associa-
tion Meetings, Helsinki Finance Summit, Research in Behavioral Finance Conference, the University
of California–Berkeley, the University of California, Los Angeles, Ohio State University, Arizona State
University, Georgetown University, London School of Economics, Copenhagen Business School, BI Nor-
wegian Business School, University of Virginia, Darden, Michigan State University, University of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign, and the Nordic Finance PhD Workshop. I thank the Academy of Finland, Nas-
daq Nordic Foundation, the OP Group Research Foundation, the Foundation for Promoting the Finnish
Securities Market, and the Foundation for Economic Education for generous financial support. I am
grateful to the commercial data platform for providing the data, LexiFi for providing the pricing tool,
and Aalto University for hospitality.
Declarations of interest: none.
†Ohio State University, 832 Fisher Hall 2100 Neil Avenue Columbus, OH 43210. E-mail:
vokata.1@osu.edu. I completed a significant part of this project during a research visit at the Uni-
versity of California–Berkeley.
1 Introduction
Canonical theories of financial innovation share one key implication: innovation benefits
adopters whose needs are not fully met by existing securities. Financial intermediaries
engineer new products that investors demand, and as a result may improve social wel-
fare.1 A less sanguine view is that innovators do not intend to help investors but rather
try to exploit them to extract rents. For example, intermediaries may innovate products
to hide fees or encourage excessive risk-taking of confused investors. Although views
like these are common among academics, policy-makers, and in society at large, careful
empirical investigations of ex-ante inferior financial innovations have been scarce.2 This
paper aims to fill this gap and investigate cases of new financial products that are almost
certainly not engineered to benefit their adopters.
Quantifying benefits of financial innovations is challenging because adopters’ pri-
vate values are unobserved. One may think that novel funds that ex post underperform
existing funds do not add value, but funds diﬀer on many dimensions that may be
hard to quantify ex ante and that some investors may find valuable. Similarly, expen-
sive (Henderson and Pearson, 2011) and complex (Célérier and Vallée, 2017) structured
products may appear to be designed to exploit unsophisticated investors, but investor
heterogeneity and unobserved preferences pose a challenge to this explanation.
I address these challenges with new data and a new empirical method. I study yield
enhancement products (YEPs), which package high-coupon bonds with short positions
in put options. Two aspects make YEPs an ideal setting for my empirical analysis. First,
YEP payoﬀs at maturity are defined by a finite set of features that are all known ex
ante and are independent of post-issuance actions of issuers or investors. I use novel
data from the most comprehensive data provider that records all these features in a
semi-standardized textual description. The data covers more than 28,000 YEPs issued
1See, for example, Ross (1976) and Allen and Gale (1994). Even in cases in which financial innovation
can make all agents worse oﬀ (Elul, 1995), the use of new securities is individually optimal for adopters.
Tufano (2003) and Lerner and Tufano (2011) provide a review of the literature on financial innovation.
2For examples of this negative view, see Schoar (2012), Philippon (2016), and Volcker (2009). Zin-
gales(2015)notesthat"57%ofreadersofTheEconomist[...] disagreewiththestatementthat"financial
innovation boosts economic growth." Campbell (2006), in his presidential address, calls for further the-
oretical and empirical research of such "perverse" financial innovation. Frame, Wall, and White (2018),
in their most recent survey of empirical work on financial innovation, mention only Henderson and
Pearson (2011) as an example of the dark side of financial innovation.
over 2006–2015. Second, the payoﬀs of YEPs can be closely approximated by those
of listed options and I can therefore use relative valuation to derive costs and possible
benefits of YEPs compared with existing securities. Specifically, I use unambiguous rela-
tive payoﬀ comparisons by constructingcounterfactual payoﬀsthat first-orderdominate
YEPs. In other words, I identify situations in which the YEP payoﬀ is ex-ante domi-
nated by existing securities across all its dimensions, in all states of the world, and for
any investor.3
My central empirical findings are twofold. First, I find the embedded fees of YEPs
are large enough for their ex-ante and ex-post returns to benegative. This finding implies
thatunlessaninvestorvaluesYEPsforhedgingpurposes, theyarenotbeneficial, because
any risk-averse investor would be better oﬀ investing in the risk-free asset. The second
result, which is novel, is that the products are often first-order stochastically dominated
by simple combinations of listed options. This finding rules out that dominated YEPs
are beneficial even for hedging motives. Taken together, these results imply that under
a minimum set of assumptions YEPs are not designed to benefit investors.
AprominentexampleisaproductlinkedtoJPMorganChasedepictedingrayinFig.
1. The product has a maturity of three months and oﬀers a coupon of 11.5% per annum.
At maturity, the product repays the principal in full if the price of JPMorgan Chase does
not fall below 75% of its initial price at any time during the three months. Otherwise,
the payoﬀ is decreased by the decline in the stock price at maturity. Assuming a 6%
annual market risk premium and given the product’s estimated beta (0.5 at issuance),
the expected gross return of the product is less than 1% over its term. Because the
product charges more than 5% in embedded margin, its net-of-fee expected return is less
than −4%.
Moreover, I find that investors could take on less risk and achieve a significantly
higher coupon rate,26.7% p.a., by creating a payoﬀ dominating this YEP with listed
options. This synthetic payoﬀ is depicted in black and consists of a simple combination
of two put options and risk-free lending. Importantly, to construct this payoﬀ, investors
need less skill than one needs to estimate fees of YEPs. They only need to understand
3In a diﬀerent setting Egan (2019) studies reverse convertibles, a class of YEPs, which dominate
other reverse convertibles. I focus on cases in which simple combinations of listed options dominate
YEPs.
and combine payoﬀs of vanilla options, but they do not need to apply any option pricing
techniques.
-60-40-20020Return (%)5060708090100110120130Synthetic, 26.7% couponYEP, 11.5% couponReturn if barrier not breached
Fig. 1: Dominated example of yield enhancement product
The figure shows the total return diagram for YEP linked to JPMorgan Chase & Co. (CUSIP:
78008TYE8) and dominating synthetic security constructed using put options and lending. Prices
of the underlying are normalized to 100 at issuance. Details for both securities are provided in Table 1.
I start my empirical analysis by providing new evidence on the costs and returns of
YEPs. I first develop a precise translation algorithm to convert the textual descriptions
of YEP payoﬀs into mathematical formulas. I then estimate the fair value of these payoﬀ
formulas using a local volatility diﬀusion model, which is a standard approach to value
exotic payoﬀs. Depending on the YEP payoﬀ, I use either a finite diﬀerence scheme,
static replication, or Monte Carlo simulations to price path-dependent YEPs. Under
conservative assumptions, on average YEPs embed 3.5% margin, which translates to
a volume-weighted (equal weighted) average annual fee of 5.7% (7.2%). To put this
number in perspective, YEPs are more than five times as expensive as equity mutual
funds (Greenwood and Scharfstein, 2013).
Notably, these fees often exceed the gross expected return of YEPs. I quantify the
expected returns from YEPs net of fees under various assumptions about the expected
return on the underlying and find that, on average, YEPs are not expected to yield
positive returns. One advantage of my sample size and period length is that I can
evaluate if the poor YEP expected returns materialize into negative realized returns. To
do so, I evaluate the translated payoﬀ formulas at maturity and any possible coupon
payments and early terminations occurring over the life of the product. I find that both
the total and annualized ex-post returns are, on average, negative. This poor ex-post
performance is not limited to the financial crisis of 2007–08. For instance, the third
of the products with the shortest maturities—and therefore with the shortest times to
recoup their fees—earn negative average returns in eight out of the ten sample years.
To risk adjust the ex-post returns, I develop delta-hedged returns that take into
account the non-linearities in YEP payoﬀs. The volume-weighted (equal-weighted) ab-
normal return, calculated as the diﬀerence between the product return and delta-hedged
return, is−5.9% (−7.4%) and, therefore, comparable to the ex-ante fees.
The most common performance measure used in the industry is average annualized
returns. I show this measure is ill suited to evaluate even the raw performance of the
products, because conditional early terminations of the products—autocalls—lead to a
significant upward bias in annualized returns. As an alternative measure that does not
suﬀer from this bias and is easy to understand for retail investors, I develop time-series
indexes of YEP gross and net performance. The indexes can also be regressed on an
appropriate benchmark index to estimate alphas as alternative measures of abnormal
returns. Using CBOE Put Index, which, like YEPs, involves selling of put options,
I estimate YEP annualized alpha of−7.9%. In sum, I provide large sample evidence
based on a number of alternative measures that YEPs charge 6–7% in embedded fees
and subsequently lose 6–7% relative to risk-adjusted benchmarks.
I next examine the benefits of YEPs relative to listed options as in the example
product shown in Fig. 1. For each product I create a synthetic YEP from up to two put
options that statically approximate and statewise dominate the YEP payoﬀ at maturity.
I then determine YEP as dominated whenever the implied coupon of the synthetic YEP
exceeds the YEP coupon. This simple method is transparent, model free, and depends
on a minimum number of assumptions while allowing me to derive a suﬃcient measure
that identifies cases of inferior financial innovations.
In a sample of 17,000 YEPs that can be approximated with up to two options, I
find listed options dominate 30–45% of YEPs. Importantly, the construction of synthetic
YEPs takes into account transaction costs in the form of bid-ask spreads, and additional
transaction costs such as commissions, tax motives, access to leverage, or minimum
investment amounts do not explain their dominance.
I perform a battery of robustness checks that provide comfort about the validity
of the data, payoﬀ translation, and valuation model. I validate my calculated returns
with returns reported by the platform and by an independent consulting firm. I also
compare my estimates of fair values with estimates reported by issuers, fair values from
a commercial pricing tool, and prices reported in TRACE for secondary repurchases by
issuers. To give one example, the correlation between my estimates and TRACE prices
is more than 99%, which confirms that the data, my payoﬀ translation, and the valuation
method are highly accurate.
Thelengthofmysampleperiodalsoallowsmetoassessseveralpotentialdisciplining
mechanismsthat couldeliminate YEPswith negativeexpected returns. In2013, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required issuers to disclose their estimates
of the fair product value to give investors a chance to understand the fees. I find the
mandatory value disclosure is not associated with a significant decline in fees. The bad
performance of the market during the 2008 financial crisis allowed investors to learn
about the possibly neglected downside risks of YEPs. Although I find issuance volume
of YEPs declined by about 40% in 2009, already in 2010 sales recovered to more than
90% of the 2008 level. Finally, competition among YEP issuers or from cheap online
brokers of listed options had the potential to push down prices of YEPs. I find that over
2010–2015, the fees of YEPs significantly declined. However, even in 2015, the fees of
YEPs were large enough for their expected returns to be negative.
Given the inferiority of YEPs, a natural question is why investors are buying them.
Evidence from regulatory investigations shows banks target the products mainly at retail
and often unsophisticated investors. I document three patterns consistent with issuers
catering to investor biases. First, the high coupons of the products are saliently adver-
tised often in the name of the product, whereas to quantify the possible losses, investors
need to use option pricing techniques. Second, consistent with framing eﬀects, the pos-
sible loss of principal at maturity is often not emphasized as a capital loss but instead
reframed as the delivery of the underlying. Third, I show the underlying stocks are not
chosen at random but overrepresent highly volatile stocks with a higher probability of
downside losses. I also find that brokers selling the products receive significantly higher
commissions from selling YEPs than dominating listed options. All these patterns are
consistent with banks engineering YEPs to charge high fees to unsophisticated investors
who would be better oﬀ keeping their money in mattresses.
My study adds to four strands of research. First, my results add to the litera-
ture on financial innovation and provide novel evidence that financial innovation may
not always benefit society (Zingales, 2015; Heidhues, Kőszegi, and Murooka, 2016; Gen-
naioli, Shleifer, and Vishny, 2012; Allen, 2012). Unlike in the contexts in which the
suboptimal use of new financial products is what lowers household welfare (Bertrand
and Morse, 2011; Li, Subrahmanyam, and Yang, 2018), my conclusions are independent
of the actions of adopters and their unobserved preferences.
Second, my work relates to the literature on the cost of financial intermediation
(Philippon, 2015; Hortaçsu and Syverson, 2004) and hidden fees (Gabaix and Laibson,
2006; Anagol and Kim, 2012; Duarte and Hastings, 2012). The evidence that YEPs yield
negative returns suggests search costs or trust (Gennaioli, Shleifer, and Vishny, 2014)
alone cannot explain their high costs and that behavioral explanations may play a role
in investors’ perception of product’s intrinsic values. The results on mandated value
disclosure add to the literature on regulation of consumer financial products (Camp-
bell, Jackson, Madrian, and Tufano, 2011; Beshears, Choi, Laibson, and Madrian, 2011;
Agarwal, Chomsisengphet, Mahoney, and Stroebel, 2015; Campbell, 2016) and show
disclosure may not be enough to drive bad products out of the market.
Third, my paper relates to the growing literature on reaching for yield (Stein, 2013;
Hanson and Stein, 2015; Di Maggio and Kacperczyk, 2017; Lian, Ma, and Wang, 2019).
My results are consistent with behavioral explanations, such as framing and salience
(Bordalo, Gennaioli, and Shleifer, 2016), playing an important role in reaching for yield
by retail investors.
Fourth, my paper contributes to the literature on retail structured products (Hen-
derson and Pearson, 2011; Bergstresser, 2008; Célérier and Vallée, 2017; Egan, 2019;
Henderson, Pearson, and Wang, 2020b) and complex financial products (Carlin, 2009;
Carlin, Kogan, and Lowery, 2013; Ghent, Torous, and Valkanov, 2019). My paper is
the first to provide large sample evidence on the risk-adjusted performance of a class of
structured products; it identifies a new source of their performance manipulation, and
develops a new method based on performance indexes to benchmark their performance.
Theremainderofthispaperisorganizedasfollows. Section2describesmysampleof
YEPs. Section 3 presents the estimated costs and returns of YEPs. Section 4 describes
the construction of synthetic and dominated YEPs. Section 5 shows that common
performance measures used in the industry are biased and presents YEP performance
indexes. Section 6 analyzes fair value disclosure. Section 7 discusses possible reasons
why investors buy the products. Section 8 concludes.
2 Sample of yield enhancement products
YEPs—also categorized as income products—represent the largest category in terms of
the number of products of retail structured notes oﬀered in the U.S.4 Their issuance
volume accounts for more than 40% of the volume of structured notes registered with
the SEC. Banks market the products under diﬀerent names, such as reverse convertible
notes, income securities, yield optimization notes, equity-linked securities, and reverse
exchangeable securities. In recent years, auto-callable securities—a class of YEPs that
terminate early if the underlying rises above a predefined call price—have become more
popular.
YEPs derive their return from the performance of the underlying asset or basket
of assets. The most common underlying is a single stock or an equity index. A typical
product has limited upside, determined by a fixed coupon rate. As the name suggests,
this coupon rate—also called the headline rate—is higher than the prevailing interest
rate. The higher yield is compensated by downside risk that is embedded in the product
payoﬀ through a short position in plain vanilla or exotic put options.
The products do not charge any ongoing fees but embed a margin of which part
4Other types of retail structured products include participation products and capital protected notes,
studied, for example, by Calvet, Célérier, Sodini, and Vallée (2017). In the insurance market, structured
equity-linked annuities represent more than one-third of insurers’ liabilities (Koijen and Yogo, 2017).
The term "structured (finance) products" is also used for structured finance vehicles that pool large
numbers of economic assets and subsequently issue tranches against these collateral pools (Coval, Jurek,
and Staﬀord, 2009). I use the term for securities that derive their payoﬀ from a small number of
underlying assets and a non-linear payoﬀ formula.
goes to the distributing brokers in the form of a commission, and the remaining part
compensates the issuers.
2.1 Data
My data on YEPs come from a commercial data provider that collects data on structured
products issued all over the world. Following Célérier and Vallée (2017), I refer to it
as "the platform." The platform is the most comprehensive source of data on retail
structured products. At the time of data retrieval, it spanned over 50 countries, 16
years, and 11 million products.
I start my sample construction with 30,637 YEPs issued between January 2006 and
September 2015 and linked to equity indices or stocks covered in OptionMetrics. I use
this sample to train an algorithm to translate product textual descriptions to mathe-
matical formulas. The final translated sample covers 28,383 products, which represents
more than 90% of the original sample. Because mine is the first study to use the U.S.
database of the platform and the first one to use its payoﬀ descriptions for a performance
analysis, the online appendix describes the data coverage and several validity checks I
perform.
2.2 Payoﬀ translation
The key feature of the data is a complete and concise description of the product payoﬀ—
in the form of short semi-structured text distilled from the long and complex disclosure
in the prospectus. Table 1 shows the description for the example product. The first
sentence defines the underlying asset, followed by a description of the product cash
flows before and at maturity.
The main challenge of the translation is the large variety of descriptions that re-
flect both the heterogeneity in product payoﬀs and the semi-structured nature of the
descriptions—the same product payoﬀ can be described in multiple ways. To reduce
the dimensionality of the translation, I first detect and replace synonymous phrases in
the corpus of the descriptions.5 I then validate and hand-translate the most common
5To pre-process the data, I remove upper cases and stop words and I strip the first sentence specifying
product payoﬀs. Panel B of Table 1 shows the final formula for the example product.
To evaluate the product values, I need to merge the translated formulas with data
on underlying prices and valuation inputs from the Center for Research in Security Prices
(CRSP) and OptionMetrics’ IvyDB US database. To do that, I use the only identifier
of the underlying asset available in the platform—the underlying name. For each name,
I find the closest security name in OptionMetrics in terms of the Levenshtein distance
(Levenshtein, 1966) and validate name pairs that are not perfect matches. I then merge
CRSP with OptionMetrics using the CUSIP code.
I evaluate the payoﬀs using the dates of initial and final valuation recorded by the
platform. The platform, however, does not report the dates on which the conditions for
conditional coupons or early termination (knock-out) are determined. I either extract
these observation dates directly from the prospectuses or I extract the coupon and
knock-out frequency from the payoﬀ description and extrapolate the dates from the
initial valuation date.6
2.3 Payoﬀ validation
I first verify that my formulas accurately describe product payoﬀs. To this end, I use
three independent data sources. First, I compare my estimates of product fair values
derived from the translated formulas with secondary market prices reported in TRACE.
Next, I compare my ex-post returns with ex-post returns reported by the platform or by
an independent consulting firm. The correlations between the estimates are 99%, 93%,
and 96%, respectively, and I find the rare discrepancies in ex-post returns are driven by
stock splits or reused tickers not factored in by the platform. Section A.3 of the online
appendix provides further details on these checks.
the underlying and all numerical variables. I train a word2vec embedding model on n-grams of up to
five words do detect synonymous phrases.
6I find that unlike in the bond market, in my sample, short/long last coupons are more common
than short/long first coupons.
2.4 Descriptive statistics
Table 2 presents summary statistics of the translated sample. Panel A summarizes prod-
uctcharacteristics. Theaverageheadlinerateis12%—anorderofmagnitudehigherthan
the prevailing interest rate. The overnight indexed swap (OIS) rate with matching ma-
turity averages only 1.4%. The products have short maturities. Their average maximum
term—if they do not terminate early—is one year. Panel B reports the average underly-
ing factor loadings from the Fama and French (2015) five-factor model. The underlyings
are typically highly volatile stocks selected systematically to support high headline rates
and moderate downside protection.7 Their average beta is 1.6—a value common for the
top beta decile of the U.S. stocks.8
3 Costs and returns of YEPs
In this section, I estimate YEP costs and returns. I first discuss the estimated ex-ante
measures—embedded margins, fees, and implied expected returns—and then turn to the
ex-post evidence on YEP performance.
3.1 Valuation model
I estimate the values of YEPs using a local volatility diﬀusion model, which is a standard
industry approach to value exotic payoﬀs and has been used by (Célérier and Vallée,
2017). The price of the underlying asset,St, follows the diﬀusion:
dSt = rtStdt+ σ(t,St)StdWt + dAt, (1)
where rt is the interest rate,σ(t,St) is the volatility surface as a function of timet and
spot levelSt, Wt is a Brownian motion, and
At = −
nD∑
i=1
ci1t≤ti, (2)
7Section 7.2 provides more evidence on the underlying selection.
8See Table A.4 in the online appendix for the 40 most frequent underlyings and Table A.3 for the
15 largest issuers.
where 0 <t1 <t2 <tnD are ex-dividend dates andci are dividend amounts.
To calculate local volatility,σ(t,St), with Dupire’s formula (Dupire, 1994), I use
a discrete set of implied volatilities from volatility surface of OptionMetrics and non-
parametric arbitrage-free interpolation following Andreasen and Huge (2011). OIS rates
to build the yield curve are from Bloomberg (Hull and White, 2013). Unless a dividend
payment date is already declared, I project the ex-dividend dates by extrapolating from
the previous 12 months of history. For indexes, I assume a constant dividend yield equal
to the dividend yield reported in OptionMetrics.
I then follow industry practice and use the local volatility model described above
with an appropriate valuation method for each payoﬀ type. That is, I use a finite diﬀer-
ence scheme for products with embedded vanilla or barrier options, static replications
for digital options, and Monte Carlo simulations for autocallable products. Section B of
the online appendix contains further details.
Because the products expose investors to the default risk of the issuer, their values
should be adjusted for credit risk. A common proxy for the issuer credit risk is the
CDS spread, which is not available for a quarter of the products in my sample. In
addition, such credit value adjustment is too large when issuers’ default is negatively
correlated with YEP payoﬀs, which is likely the case for the products in my sample. For
these reasons, I estimate the value of the products without the credit value adjustment,
but discuss the size of the impact of the adjustment for products with available CDS
spread. CDS data are from (in order of priority) CMA Datavision, Thomson Reuters,
and Bloomberg.
3.2 Validation
Before describing the results, I first perform three independent checks to verify the
accuracy of this computationally intensive valuation. First, I compare my estimates with
product fair values from a commercial pricing tool used by product issuers as well as by
academics (Célérier and Vallée, 2017). This comparison allows me to keep the product
data, valuationinputs, andthebroadvaluationapproachfixedwithdiﬀerencesstemming
only from minor diﬀerences in implementation. I confirm that the estimates are highly
positively correlated (ρ = 95%,N = 21,390) with an economically unimportant mean
diﬀerence of2.9 basis points.
As a second check, I compare my estimates with the estimates disclosed by issuers
following the 2013 SEC requirement. I find issuer estimates are also highly correlated
with my estimates (ρ= 87% for annual margins andρ= 61% for fair values,N = 6,372),
despite the fact that they can be based on diﬀerent valuation inputs or approaches.
Finally, the high correlation between my estimates and secondary prices reported in
TRACE (ρ = 99% ,N = 24 ,746) serves as a third check of my valuation approach.
Section B.1 of the online appendix describes these checks in more detail.
3.3 Margins and embedded fees
Table 3, Panel A, reports the estimated product margins at issuance. I define the margin
as
margin = price−fair value
price . (3)
The average margin before adjusting for the credit risk is3.6%; that is, a product sold
for $1,000 is on average worth only $964.
In the second and third columns, I estimate the margins only for the subsample
of products with available CDS spread data. The diﬀerence between the unadjusted
(r= rf ) and the credit-risk-adjusted (r= rf +CDS) margins is, on average, only about
0.14 percentage points. Because the eﬀect of credit value adjustment is small and the
CDS data are not available for a significant fraction of the products, I focus on the
unadjusted values in the rest of the paper. These fair values, therefore, represent lower
bound estimates, and the expected returns derived from them represent upper bound
estimates.9
In Panel B, I convert the margins into annual embedded fees. Previous literature
sometimes reports the annualized margin (Célérier and Vallée, 2017; Calvet, Célérier,
Sodini, and Vallée, 2017), but this measure does not take into account early termination
of products, which makes them more expensive on an annual basis. I calculate annual
9If an investor decides to sell the product before maturity, any markdown charged by the issuers in
the secondary prices constitutes another source of embedded costs. Section C.1 in the online appendix
estimates that the markdowns average 2% of the secondary fair value.
fees as
fee = margin
E(maturity), (4)
where E(maturity) is the expected maturity of the product calculated using risk-neutral
probabilities of termination. On (volume-weighted) average, investors pay (5.7%) 7.2%
in annual fees. As a point of reference, YEPs are more than five times as expensive as
equity mutual funds (Greenwood and Scharfstein, 2013).
I find the product expected term is the most important determinant of its fees.
Although both the margin and commission increase with the product term, they do
not scale linearly with the product term but include a fixed component. As a result,
the shorter the product term, the more expensive the product is on an annual basis.
Columns 2 −4 in Panel B show that for short-term products with an expected term
up to four months, the average annual fee is as high as11 −12%, whereas longer-term
products with an expected term above eight months have average fees below4%.10
3.4 Expected returns
I now test how the fees reported in the previous section aﬀect the net-of-fee expected
returns of YEPs and show that under various measures of the expected return on the
underlying, the majority of the products in my sample have a negative expected return.
To this end, I extend the pricing model described in Section 3.1 and calculate the ex-
pected undiscounted product payoﬀs under the objective ("real-world") expected return
on the underlying,µ. I update the underlying diﬀusion as follows:
dSt = µtStdt+ σ(t,St)StdWt + dAt. (5)
The estimated product payoﬀ expressed as a percentage of the issue price minus one
equals the product expected return net of fees. In my baseline specification, I estimate
10The margins I find are in line with the YEP margins in Henderson and Pearson (2011) and Egan
(2019) in the U.S. market. To be clear, the estimated fees are specific to the U.S. YEPs and may
not extend to other retail structured product markets. For example, given the important relationship
between product term and fees, capital protected products, which tend to have longer maturities, are
likely significantly cheaper than YEPs. Previous literature also shows substantial variation in structured
productmarketsacrosscountries(CélérierandVallée,2017;Baule,2011;Szymanowska, Horst, andVeld,
2009; Burth, Kraus, and Wohlwend, 2003).
the expected return on the underlying asset using the CAPMβ estimated over the past
60 months and a6% p.a. market risk premium. The first column of Table 4 reports
the results and shows the sample average, the volume-weighted average, and the median
are all negative, ranging from a total return of−0.5% to −1.5%. The estimated returns
are higher with the market premium equal to 8% p.a. (second column) or to the value-
weighted CRSP average (third column), but even in these specifications, the median
expected return is negative and the average is not significantly diﬀerent from zero.
In the previous analysis, I assume the market risk premium is constant or equal
to the historical average. Martin (2017) shows his measure of expected market return
(SVIX) derived from option prices implies a large time-series variation in expected mar-
ket return, which exceeds 20% in the peak months of 2008. I estimate product expected
returns using SVIX for a sample of products issued before February 2012 (due to data
availability). Column 4 confirms the average expected return is negative even under
SVIX. Moreover, the individual averages of expected returns in nine out of the ten years
of my sample estimated with a 6% p.a. market risk premium are negative as well.
Therefore, my results are not driven by the unusual market conditions in the fall of
2008.
In the last column of Table 4, I use the Fama and French (2015) five-factor model
instead of the single-factor model. A large empirical literature dating back to Black
(1972) shows underperformance of high-beta stocks relative to the CAPM predictions.
Given that high-beta stocks are overrepresented in the sample of underlying equities, the
single-factor model likely overestimates the expected returns of the underlying stocks.
This is consistent with the expected returns estimated using the five-factor model, which
are significantly lower than in the previous specifications. The volume-weighted average
expected total return in this specification is−1.73%, and for three-quarters of YEPs, I
estimate a negative expected return.
In Panel B of Table 4, I report the estimated expected returns on an annual basis
calculated as the internal rate of return that makes the discounted expected payoﬀs equal
to the issue price. The expected annualized returns are negative in all specifications.
3.5 Ex-post performance
The evidence presented so far focuses on ex-ante costs and returns. In the rest of this
section, I provide the first comprehensive evidence of YEPs’ ex-post performance.11
Due to the paucity of secondary market trading of YEPs, time-series data on their
returns are scant. For this reason, I start by analyzing YEP returns at maturity. Al-
though the platform records realized returns provided by the issuers or calculated by the
platform analysts, its coverage is only about 50% of my sample. To get a comprehensive
record of YEP performance, I calculate their returns using the translated payoﬀ formulas
combined with the ex-post prices of the underlying assets correctly adjusted for stock
splits and stock dividends. The realized return is defined as the sum of all coupons and
the payoﬀ at maturity divided by the issue price minus one. This approach does not
take into account the possibility of issuer default, which is rare but happened, e.g., in
case of products issued by Lehman Brothers.
To correctly risk adjust YEP’s non-linear returns, I calculate benchmark returns
from delta-equivalent daily adjusted portfolios of the underlying and the risk-free bond
(Broadie, Chernov, and Johannes, 2009). Daily delta,
∆i,t(Si,t,σ(t,Si,t),rt,Ai,t) = ∂fair valuei,t
∂Si,t
, (6)
comes from the valuation model described in Section 3.1. I cap the absolute product
delta at two to avoid extreme positions. For each productiand trading dayt, I calculate
the daily benchmark return,rb
i,t, as
rb
i,t = rt + ∆i,t(rSi,t −rt), (7)
where rSi,t is the return on the underlying stock on dayt. The benchmark return at
maturity is then the cumulative return on this delta-equivalent replicating portfolio.
Table 5 presents the results. Over the sample period, investors in YEPs lost money
on average. The volume-weighted average total return is−3.98%, or−3.46% annually.
11Previous large-sample studies, e.g., Deng, Dulaney, Husson, McCann, and Yan (2015), analyze ex-
post performance but do not quantify risk-adjusted performance that takes into account non-linearity
in YEP payoﬀs.
Over a quarter of the products paid back less than the invested capital. Products issued
in the years 2007 and 2008 earn the lowest average returns, but the negative returns
are not confined to the crash period. Investors lost money on average even in the years
2011, 2014, and 2015, when the market earned positive returns. On a risk-adjusted
basis, the total abnormal returns (defined as the diﬀerence between the product return
and benchmark return) are−3.25%, or−5.93% annually, and therefore comparable to
the ex-ante estimated margins and fees.
4 Synthetic YEPs and dominated products
The previous section shows that YEPs charge fees large enough for their expected and
realized returns to be negative. Such products could still be desirable for investors if
they are intended for hedging or speculative motives. Consistent with such motives, the
products are often advertised as providing access to exotic payoﬀs. Although the exotic
payoﬀs of YEPs are not easily available to retail investors, in this section, I show payoﬀs
that first-order dominate YEPs are often easily available through listed options.
4.1 Construction of synthetic YEPs
To this end, I construct a synthetic counterpart to each YEP that can be statically
approximated with up to two positions in put options and lending, as in the example
product in Fig. 1. The construction of these synthetic YEPs varies depending on the
exact YEP payoﬀ but follows a simple algorithm. First, from all listed put options with
the same underlying available on the initial YEP pricing date, find the ones with the
closest expiry date before the YEP maturity. Next, find two options with the closest
strike prices below the YEP barrier level. Finally, buy and sell the quantities in these
two options that will most closely approximate from above the YEP payoﬀ at maturity
excluding any coupon payments, and lend the nominal value of YEP for the risk-free
rate. Fig. D.3 in the online appendix and Panel C of Table 1 provide an example of the
construction of synthetic YEP.
As price inputs, I use bid and ask option prices and the OIS rate as a proxy for the
risk-free rate. The sum of the risk-free rate plus the net income from selling and buying
the put options annualized using the option expiry date and 30/360 day count convention
then gives the coupon rate of this synthetic YEP. Its most important characteristic is
that as long as the synthetic coupon rate is higher than the original YEP coupon rate,
the synthetic product statewise dominates the YEP.
Theconstructionofthesyntheticcounterpartsisintentionallysimplesothatitcould
be easily implemented by any retail investor who understands the payoﬀs of YEPs. It
is not intended to best approximate the payoﬀs of the products, which could be better
achieved with more sophisticated quasi-static replications requiring more skill. Note
this approximation does not require any knowledge of option pricing. All it requires is
an understanding of the payoﬀs of a short and long position in a put option and their
combination. It also does not require any additional margin, because the maximum
possible loss is fully cash secured by the nominal value of the product invested at the
risk-free rate.
4.2 Evidence on dominated YEPs
Fig. 2, Panel A, compares the coupon rates of YEPs with their synthetic counterparts.
The coupon rate of YEPs averages 12.97% p.a., whereas the synthetic YEPs average
11.62%. This comparison shows that although synthetic YEPs oﬀer in many cases
significantly better downside protection, their coupon rates are only 1.35 percentage
points lower.
The downside protection of synthetic YEPs is significantly better for three reasons.
First, the synthetic YEPs do not include path-dependent conditions, which make the
protection weaker. For example, for the barrier product in Fig. 1, YEP exposes investors
to losses of the principal if the underlying drops below the barrier on any day during the
life of the product, whereas the synthetic YEP exposes investors to principal losses only
if the underlying is below the barrier at maturity. Second, if listed options do not span
the barrier level of YEPs, the level of downside protection of YEPs is by construction
lower because the algorithm takes the first option with strike price below the barrier
level. On average, the synthetic YEPs protect the principal up to a 29.2% fall in the
underlying, whereas the corresponding protection of YEPs is only up to 25.6%. Finally,
because the sharp decline below barrier is not perfectly vertical, synthetic YEPs oﬀer
better protection even below the barrier.
Given the lower downside risk of synthetic YEPs, the resulting small diﬀerence
between synthetic and YEP coupon rates casts some doubt on the view that YEPs are
access products or that their payoﬀs allow investors better reach for yield in a low-
interest rate environment (Célérier and Vallée, 2017). In fact, for nearly half of the
sample, investors would have achieved higher yield with the synthetic approximations
of YEPs.
In Panel B of Fig. 2, I define the excess synthetic coupon rate as the diﬀerence
between the synthetic and YEP coupon rate. Therefore, when the excess synthetic
rate is positive, the synthetic payoﬀ statewise dominates the original YEP. I call these
products dominated YEPs. The figure shows 43% of the products in the sample are
dominated. Column 1 of Table 6 shows that on a volume-weighed basis, the fraction of
dominated products is even slightly higher—45%.
In other words, for nearly half of the products, investors would be better oﬀ in all
states of the world by investing in a simple combination of put options and risk-free
rate rather in the complex YEP.12 In these cases, investors would get better downside
protection and a higher coupon rate and at the same time enjoy higher liquidity, better
transparency, greater customization, and lower risk of market manipulation through
pre-trade hedging (Henderson, Pearson, and Wang, 2020b) of listed options. I show
other diﬀerences, such as between American- and European-style exercise, minimum
investment amounts, tax reasons, or leverage, do not make YEPs preferable to their
synthetic counterparts either. Therefore, rationalizing dominated YEPs with any theory
of financial innovation intended to reduce transaction costs or to improve spanning is
hard.
OnediﬀerencebetweenYEPsandstandardizedoptionsisthatYEPshaveEuropean-
style exercise whereas stock options are American. Exercise of deep-in-the-money Amer-
ican put options can be optimal to earn interest. Given the low interest rates during
my sample period, the fact that most of the options at issuance are deep out of the
12Table D.4 in the online appendix shows the probability of being dominated as well as the excess
synthetic coupon rate are positively related to brokers’ commissions and issuers’ margins. In addition,
the probability of being dominated is the highest for product payoﬀs with embedded vanilla options,
which are most easily approximated with listed options, and the lowest for products with barrier options,
which cannot be statically replicated with vanilla listed options.
money, and that investors often fail to optimally exercise put options (Barraclough and
Whaley, 2012), this concern is not important. Nevertheless, I examine the impact of
early exercise on the synthetic payoﬀs.
Investors in the synthetic YEP facing an early assignment of the short put position
can execute the long position and finance the residual assigned quantity with the nominal
value deposited at the risk-free rate. The final synthetic payoﬀ will diﬀer only in the
amount of income from lending at the risk-free rate over the remaining time to maturity.
Column 2 of Table 6 shows that under a significantly more conservative assumption of
excluding all lending income (i.e., even for the majority of cases in which the embedded
options are never deep in the money and for the whole duration of the synthetic YEP),
about one third of YEPs remain dominated by synthetic YEPs.
As another robustness check, I examine the role of diﬀerent maturity between YEPs
and synthetic YEPs. To annualize the coupon rate of synthetic YEPs, I use the maturity
of its option components, which is by construction shorter than the YEP maturity,
whenever listed options do not perfectly span YEP maturities. I believe this approach
is reasonable given that YEP investors do not appear to have a strong preference for the
exact maturity of YEPs and often invest in YEPs that can terminate early. Nevertheless,
I next evaluate the impact of the diﬀerences in maturities. Fig. D.5 in the online
appendix plots the diﬀerence between the YEP maturity date and the closest expiry
date of listed options. Out of the 17,000 YEPs with available synthetic counterparts,
more than half (8,915) have available listed options that expire up to 40 days before YEP
maturity. This evidence goes against the idea that the main purpose of YEPs is to span
maturities unspanned by listed options. Column 3 of Table 6 shows that in these 8,915
products, 28–30% of YEPs remain dominated even if I annualize the synthetic coupon
rate using the longer YEP maturity. Note that in this specification, the downside risk
exposure of YEPs compared to the synthetic YEPs is even larger, because YEPs expose
investors to downside losses over a longer period.
One may also wonder if diﬀerences between the minimum invested amounts of YEPs
and synthetic YEPs play a role. Standardized option contracts are for 100 shares of the
underlying stock, which implies an average minimum position in a synthetic YEP of
$6,423. The minimum investment amount of YEPs is usually $1,000, but the typical
invested amounts are significantly higher. For example, the average investment by 8,700
investorsinUBSreverseconvertiblesatthecenteroftheSECfineforunsuitablesaleswas
$63,000.13 The median invested amount implied from my sample of secondary TRACE
prices is $25,000. Moreover, Columns 5 and 6 of Table D.4 show that dominated YEPs
have a slightly higher issuance volume, although the diﬀerence is not statistically signifi-
cant. These patterns mean dominated YEPs are unlikely improve the access of investors
by requiring lower investment amounts than synthetic positions in listed options.
The high invested amounts in YEPs also imply commissions and per-contract fees
of listed options will have a small impact on the profitability of synthetic YEPs. YEPs
also do not oﬀer any tax benefits or better access to leverage.
5 Biased performance measures and YEP indexes
Section 3.5 uses delta-hedged returns to show that YEPs significantly underperform risk-
adjusted benchmarks. This result is at odds with the frequent claims by YEP promoters
that the products can provide attractive or superior performance. The evidence provided
to investors is often based on average or median annualized historical return. These
measures are only sporadically accompanied by precise risk-adjusted benchmarks and
have been used by academics.14 This lack of precise risk-adjustment that takes into
account the non-linearity in structured product payoﬀs as well as their performance-
contingent early maturity make these measures misleading.
If investors rely on them, issuers of the products have an incentive to create products
that fare well on these measures—either through lower fees, which increase expected
returns, or by engineering security designs that spuriously outperform. A simple design
feature that manipulates the measures is performance-contingent early termination, that
is, an autocall feature.
Consider the following simple autocallable product: with a 50% probability, the
product terminates in three months and returns 110% of the issue price. Otherwise, the
product terminates in 12 months and returns 80% of the issue price. The average total
13See SEC order available athttps://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2016/34-78958.pdf.
14See, e.g., FTAdviser article available athttps://www.ftadviser.com/investments/2019/10/31/
how-structured-products-can-perform-in-a-shaky-economy/ and Célérier and Vallée (2017).
realized returns of the product converge to−5%, but the average annualized realized
returns converge to 10%, despite the fact that the product has a negative expected
return. Clearly, in this case, average annualized returns are not a reasonable measure of
the product’s performance.15
The magnitude of the bias introduced by early terminations is substantial. For ex-
ample, in my sample of 7,586 autocallable products, the average total return is−0.84%,
whereas the average annualized return is5.90%. When term-weighting annualized re-
turns, which partially corrects for the bias, the average annualized return is−1.81%.
Thismanipulationmechanismcanbethoughtofasadynamicmanipulationstrategy
intended to induce estimation error in performance measures (Goetzmann, Ingersoll,
Spiegel, and Welch, 2007). It will manifest itself in an upward bias of any risk-reward
ratio (e.g., Sharpe ratio) based on annualized returns. Even absent this bias, such ratios
are ill-suited in the context of structured products with non-linear payoﬀs. Benchmark-
based measures, such as delta-hedged returns, are immune to this bias. The average
abnormal annualized return based on delta-hedged returns in my sample of autocallables
is −6.96%. In the next section, I develop an alternative manipulation-proof performance
measure based on daily indexes of YEP performance.
5.1 YEP performance indexes
Time-series performance charts are extensively used when marketing and analyzing his-
torical performance of retail financial products, and investors could therefore find them
easier to interpret than delta-hedged returns. In addition, return series can be used to
estimate widely used benchmark measures such as Jensen’s alpha. When this bench-
marking is based on broad stock market indexes, it also allows us to assess the impact
of underlying selection or price manipulation (Henderson, Pearson, and Wang, 2020b),
which delta-hedged returns do not capture.
An obvious challenge to creating an aggregate index of YEP performance is that
15Sample selection can introduce another bias, a type of survivorship bias, when analyzing products
that already matured and therefore have a positive performance and not accounting for products that
did not mature yet and will likely have a negative performance. This concern is not important in my
analysis, because I observe ex-post returns for 97% of the products, but it is a common problem in
performance studies focusing on the most recent period.
time-series data on their performance are not available, because the products are typi-
cally not listed and only sporadically traded. To address this challenge, I leverage my
valuation model and estimate the fair value of the products on each day until their ma-
turity. I then use these fair values to create two YEP performance indexes: net index,
which takes into account the product embedded fees, and gross index, which excludes
the eﬀect of fees.
To construct the indexes, I follow the MSCI fixed-income index methodology16 with
daily rebalancing and daily reinvested coupons. The indexes are volume weighted and
cover27,578productswithcompletefairvaluehistory. Thenetindexcoverstheproducts
already since the initial issue date and therefore captures the drop in their value from
issue price to fair price, whereas the gross index skips the issue day and therefore does
not take into account initial overpricing.
Panel A of Table 7 presents the summary statistics of daily returns of both indexes
as well as of the Cboe S&P 500 PutWrite (PUT) Index, which is investable through
ETFs and a reasonable benchmark for YEPs. The PUT index measures performance of
a strategy similar to YEPs that sells a sequence of one-month, at-the-money, S&P 500
Index put options and reinvests the proceeds at the T-bill rate.17 Both YEPs and the
PUT index expose investors to potentially large downside loses and a limited upside,
and they have the same degree of negative daily skewness. The YEP indexes are mostly
linked to single-name stocks and are therefore less diversified, which is reflected in their
higher standard deviation. On an annualized basis, the PUT index returned 6.36% in
excess of the risk-free rate over the period from May 2006 to December 2016, while the
gross and net YEP indexes returned only 3.93% and−0.90%, respectively.18
Fig. 3 plots the log index growth for all three indexes. Visually, the PUT and gross
YEP strategies earn positive returns in quiet times but incur large negative returns
around events such as the 2008 financial crisis, 2011 European debt crisis, or 2015–2016
16The methodology from November 2019 is available athttps://www.msci.com/eqb/methodology/
meth_docs/MSCI_FI_Index_Calculation_Methodology.pdf.
17For more details, see http://www.cboe.com/products/strategy-benchmark-indexes/
putwrite-indexes/cboe-s-p-500-putwrite-index-put .
18The return of the net index is higher than average total or annualized product returns, because
the index weighs longer-term products more heavily and gives equal weight to all days in the sample
period. Fig. D.4 in the online appendix contrasts performance of the manipulation-proof index with
the biased average annualized returns by product type.
stock market sell-oﬀ. The net YEP index does not perform well even in relatively quiet
times.
In Panel B of Table 7, I use the indexes to estimate YEP abnormal returns. To
this end, I regress the daily excess YEP returns on the PUT index excess returns and
the size, book-to-market, and momentum factors. Columns 1 and 2 report regressions
of the YEP Gross index, and columns 3 and 4 report regressions of the YEP Net index.
The constants are annualized alphas.
The gross index has a negative but insignificant alpha of−3.12%. The underlying
of YEPs could underperform the market for a number of reasons. First, Henderson,
Pearson, and Wang (2020b) show issuers manipulate underlying prices on the initial
issue date through pre-trade hedging, which should lower the subsequent underlying
returns. Second, the issuers select underlyings with expensive out-of-the-money put
options, which tend to underperform (An, Ang, Bali, and Cakici, 2014). Third, the
products are linked to a selected number of underlyings that could perform worse than
the market by chance (Bessembinder, 2018) or because of investor sentiment (Henderson,
Pearson, and Wang, 2020a).
The alpha of the net index, however, shows most of the underperformance of YEPs
comes from their fees. The net index has an annualized alpha of −7.91%, and the
diﬀerence to the alpha of the gross index,4.8%, is close to the ex-ante fees. In sum,
independent of whether retail investors rely on benchmark-adjusted or raw returns (Ben-
David, Li, Rossi, and Song, 2019), the net index is useful to communicate the poor track
record of YEPs relative to investable alternatives.
6 Mandatory fair value disclosure
To give investors a chance to understand the undisclosed costs of YEPs, in 2013 the SEC
required issuers to disclose their estimates of the fair product value. To the extent that
the disclosure successfully unshrouds the hidden costs of YEPs to uninformed investors,
it could drive expensive products out of the market. It could cause a decline in embedded
fees, margins, or issuance volume. In this section, I examine these hypotheses and the
accuracy of the disclosed values.
The intention to introduce fair value disclosure was first mentioned in a comment
letter sent by the SEC in April 2012, but it was not introduced until after a second
letter with more detailed instructions sent in February 2013.19 The SEC asked issuers
to disclose their estimate of the fair value of a product, which can be derived using the
issuer’s internal funding rate, mid-market inputs of comparable derivatives (with pos-
sible adjustments), and proprietary pricing models. Issuers implemented the disclosure
gradually over the second and third quarters of 2013.
Panel A of Table 8 shows the summary statistics of the disclosed issuer estimates
for 6,372 products and compares them with the estimates from my valuation model. I
find both estimates are very close to each other. The volume-weighted average issuer
estimate is 96.92%, whereas my estimated fair value is 96.78%. The mean diﬀerence
between the estimates, 14 basis points, is economically small and represents less than 5%
of the estimated margin. I hence conclude the disclosed issuer values provide reasonable
estimates of the product fair values.
I next examine the evolution of fees over the sample period in Fig. 4. The fees were
lower at the beginning of my sample period, elevated around the period of the financial
crisis of 2007, and started to decline again from 2011 onward. The evolution of average
underlying implied volatility (measured at 1-year maturity and delta of−20) broadly
matches the same time-series pattern, suggesting that market conditions may influence
the market for YEPs. The figure also suggests that, at a first glance, the mandatory fair
value disclosure did not have a dramatic impact on product fees. The long-term trend in
declining fees started three years prior to the mandatory disclosure, and no discernible
dramatic change occurs in 2013.
Table 8, Panel B, provides a more detailed analysis of the eﬀects of the disclosure.
In columns 1, 3, and 5, I test for the diﬀerence in fees, margins, and volume, respectively,
in the four quarters before the introduction of the disclosure (2012q1–2012q4) and four
quarters after issuers started to disclose their estimates (2013q3–2014q2). Although
these diﬀerences do not have a causal interpretation, they are indicative of possible
changes in market outcomes shortly after the disclosure. I find both the fees and margins
19Fig. D.1 in the online appendix presents an example of a pricing supplement that includes the
disclosed issuer estimated value.
declined following the disclosure, but neither of the diﬀerences is statistically significant.
The decline in fees of 36 basis points corresponds to 5.6% of the pre-disclosure average.
The coeﬃcient on volume is significant, but it has a positive sign. The average volume
increased by $0.4 million following the disclosure.
These pre-post diﬀerences may mask important heterogeneity in issuers. In particu-
lar, one may expect the impact of the disclosure to be greater for more expensive issuers.
To test this conjecture, I estimate the following diﬀerence-in-diﬀerences specification:
yikt = βHigh-Feek ×Postt + Postt + λk + ϵikt, (8)
where yikt is either the fee, margin, or volume sold of producti issued in quartert by
issuer k, High-Feek is an indicator equal to 1 for issuers with above-median fees in year
2012, Postt is an indicator equal to 1 from 2013q2 onward, andλk stands for issuer fixed
eﬀects.
The coeﬃcient β identifies the impact of the disclosure on high-fee issuers under
the assumption that they would have maintained parallel trends with low-fee issuers in
the absence of the disclosure. Consistent with this assumption, Fig. 4, Panel B, shows
both groups have parallel trends before the introduction of the disclosure.
Columns 2, 4, and 6 report the results of this estimation. I find again that the eﬀects
on high-fee issuers are not statistically significant. Moreover, the coeﬃcient on fees is
positive, implying high-fee issuers charge even relatively higher fees after the disclosure.
I conclude the disclosure did not have a significant eﬀects on the costs of the products.
7 Why do investors buy YEPs
Given their negative expected returns, why would anyone buy overpriced YEPs? Al-
though a definitive answer is beyond the scope of this paper, I am able to rule out
rational explanations for YEP demand. Any rational investor demanding YEP payoﬀs
would be better oﬀ investing in dominating portfolios of listed options and would need
less skill to trade vanilla options than one needs to estimate fees of exotic YEPs.
I next turn to a few alternative behavioral explanations. I first focus on the char-
acteristics of the investors and then analyze the framing and marketing of YEPs.
7.1 Investor characteristics
Banks target the products mainly at retail investors (Aguilar, 2015). Products sold to
accredited investors—with incomes above $200,000 or net worth over $1 million—are
exempt from the SEC registration and therefore are not in my sample of YEPs. By
FINRA rule 2111, broker-dealers can only sell products that are suitable for a customer
based on the customer’s investment profile. The recommendation of YEP is considered
suitable only if one can reasonably believe the investor is capable of evaluating its risks
based on her knowledge and experience. The internal suitability guidelines of certain
broker-dealers expect investors to have at least two years of investment experience,
a $100,000 income, $100,000 in liquid assets, and $250,000 net worth.20 Therefore,
investors for whom YEPs are suitable, should be also easily approved for option trading.
Regulatory investigations show these suitability requirements are frequently vio-
lated. For example, the SEC and FINRA found that some investors do not under-
stand the terms of the products and some broker-dealers are aggressively marketing
the products to elderly, non-English-speaking investors and to investors with conserva-
tive investment objectives, modest income or wealth, and little investing experience.21
This evidence is consistent with the explanation that inferior YEPs are aggressively sold
to unsophisticated households who are unlikely to understand the high costs and low
returns of YEPs.
7.2 Evidence on catering to biases
A number of recent studies show an important role of framing, teaser rates, and advertis-
ing content in shaping consumer financial decisions (Ausubel, 1991; Bertrand, Karlan,
20These criteria were described as "must" until 2009 and as "should" thereafter by RBC;http:
//www.finra.org/sites/default/files/fda_documents/2010022918701_FDA_JM992805.pdf.
21See SEC reports available athttps://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2011/ssp-study.pdf and
https://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/risk-alert-bd-controls-structured-securities-products.
pdf and FINRA disciplinary actions available at
http://www.finra.org//industry/disciplinary-actions/finra-disciplinary-actions-online?
search="reverse%20convertibles".
Mullainathan, Shafir, and Zinman, 2010; Gurun, Matvos, and Seru, 2016; Hastings,
Hortaçsu, and Syverson, 2017). In the context of YEPs, the product would appear
more attractive if an investor overweights the product coupon rate in her decision, and
underweights the size or probability of the possible loss.
Consistent with such framing eﬀects, I find the coupon rate is saliently displayed
in product prospectuses, often even in the name of the product. Information about the
payment at maturity when investors may lose some or all of their principal is less salient.
The information is typically displayed only after the coupon rate and does not come with
any indication of the size or the probability of losses, because these variables need to be
estimated using option pricing techniques.
More interestingly, the possible loss of principal at maturity is often not emphasized
as a loss but instead reframed as the physical delivery of the underlying. For example,
the prospectus of the example product phrases the losses as "delivery of the reference
stock instead of the principal amount," where the amount of the stock equals the face
value of the product divided by the initial underlying price.22 This phrasing allows
brokers to frame the payoﬀs of YEPs in terms of two mental accounts—holding the
stock and getting additional coupon income. At least since Black (1975) and Shefrin
and Statman (1993), brokers have been recognized using such framing manipulations,
which give a misguided impression of abnormal gains. I screen payoﬀ descriptions of all
U.S. structured products and find physical delivery is almost exclusively used only in
the loss domain and rarely in the gain domain. This pattern is consistent with banks
using physical delivery of the underlying for framing and for making YEPs look more
attractive.
Another mechanism to make the products look appealing is through underlying
selection. The higher the volatility of the underlying, the higher the probability that
investors will lose some of their invested capital. Therefore, strategic selection of highly
volatile stocks can lead an investor to underestimate the probability of a loss if she
underestimates the volatility. I find that the stocks used as underlyings have significantly
higher implied volatility than possible alternative stocks. In a sample of the 750 largest
22The prospectus is available at https://www.rbccm.com/assets/rbccm/docs/expertise/
equities/imported/usstructurednotes/file-612566.pdf.
non-financialU.S.stocks, thoseusedasanunderlyinghaveanimpliedvolatilityofat-the-
money call options of 39.8% compared to 32.4% volatility in the rest of the sample. Table
D.5 in the online appendix presents results from probabilistic regressions of underlying
selection and shows that stocks with high implied volatility are significantly more likely
used as underlying even after controlling for market capitalization, past returns, and
trading volume. The relationship holds even after including underlying fixed eﬀects,
consistent with the hypothesis that banks are more likely to use a stock as an underlying
at times when its implied volatility is high.
In summary, the evidence in this sections is consistent with the hypothesis that
unsophisticated investors are more likely to view the products as more valuable because
of framing, salient presentation of attractive product features, and strategic selection of
underlyings. This evidence is consistent with the explanation that investors in YEPs
may be unaware of their high costs and negative returns.
7.3 Marketing of YEPs
YEPs are issued by banks and distributed through broker-dealers who are compensated
by commissions disclosed in the prospectus. In a sample of 25,241 products for which the
platform reports the commissions, the average commission is 1.8%. Therefore the broker
commissions account for about 50% of the estimated margins, and in their absence, the
expected returns of the products would have been positive.
More importantly, these commissionsare significantly higher than commissionsfrom
purchases of option contracts that approximate the payoﬀs of YEPs, such as the syn-
thetic YEPs described in the previous section. One of the cheapest ways to execute
the synthetic YEP position is to use low-commission online brokers. I estimate that
under conservative assumptions, the average commissions in the sample of 17,000 syn-
thetic YEPs is less than 0.20%, or around 10% of the YEP commission, when executed
with online brokers.23 Brokers aﬃliated with issuers of YEPs may have little incentives
to direct investors to inexpensive online brokers, but are still compensated from op-
23To estimate the commissions, I assume the synthetic YEP position is $25,000 and the commission
per option trade is $15 and $0.65 per contract. With a probability of 30%, the put options embedded in
the synthetic position end up in the money, and the investor pays additional commissions for assignment
/execution or to buy/sell options to close the original positions.
tion commissions charged by their brokerage company. I estimate that for three of the
largest issuers in the sample (N = 8,740), the commissions from investing in synthetic
YEP through the aﬃliated broker is 0.91%, or 47% of the respective YEP commission.24
Therefore, brokers acting based on their best interest and not the clients’ best interest,
have strong incentives to steer investors to more expensive and inferior YEPs.
8 Conclusion
Innovation appears to proceed only very slowly in improving the design of retail fi-
nancial products, likely because of mistakes of unsophisticated households (Campbell,
2006). One particular type of ineﬃciency emanates from cross-subsidies between naive
and sophisticated households, which inhibits welfare-improving innovations (Gabaix and
Laibson, 2006). YEPs analyzed in this paper represent another example of investment
mistake. But in contrast to other markets, cross-subsidies between investors cannot play
a role in the market for dominated YEPs, because any investor would be better oﬀ in-
vesting in listed options. My estimated fees imply that YEPs are overpriced to such an
extent that their expected and realized returns are negative. The high costs of the prod-
ucts are often hidden or hard to understand, their bad performance is masked by biased
performance measures used in the industry, and their design appears to cater to investor
biases and the conflicted interest of brokers. Taken together, the evidence in this pa-
per suggests rent-seeking by financial intermediaries is what inhibits welfare-improving
financial innovation.
Yet, one can argue that YEPs represent only a small fraction of the retail financial
markets. Why should we care? In other words, are cases of inferior financial products
closer to the rule rather than an exception? On one hand, YEPs clearly diﬀer from
other retail financial products. YEPs are typically not listed, nor are they covered by
independent research firms such as Morningstar, both of which likely foster competition
and transparency among other retail financial products. Perhaps we should not be
concerned.
24To calculate the commissions, I use commissions per option trade of $25, $28.95, and $62–80.75
for JPMorgan Chase, RBC, and UBS, respectively. The respective commissions per contract are $0.65,
$1.5, and $7.5. UBS charges an additional commission of 1.75% - 2.25% of the option principal.
On the other hand, however, many factors support a less optimistic view. The
products are suitable only to relatively rich investors, they are relatively easy to compare
with listed options on which information is easily accessible, and they have existed
for long enough to allow investors to learn about their poor performance. The fair
value disclosure mandated by the SEC gave investors a chance to better understand the
embedded costs, and the high coupons of the products should raise a red flag about their
high risk to any moderately experienced investor.
References
Agarwal, S., S. Chomsisengphet, N. Mahoney, and J. Stroebel, 2015. Regulating consumer
financial products: Evidence from credit cards. Quarterly Journal of Economics 130, 111–
164.
Aguilar, L., 2015. Regulators working together to serve investors - Speech at the Annual
NASAA/SEC 19(d) Conference.
Allen, F., 2012. Trends in financial innovation and their welfare impact: An overview. European
Financial Management 18, 493–514.
Allen, F., and D. Gale, 1994. Financial innovation and risk sharing. MIT Press.
An, B., A. Ang, T. Bali, and N. Cakici, 2014. The joint cross section of stocks and options.
Journal of Finance 69, 2279–2337.
Anagol, S., andH.Kim, 2012.Theimpactofshroudedfees: Evidencefromanaturalexperiment
in the Indian mutual funds market. American Economic Review 102, 576–593.
Andreasen, J., and B. Huge, 2011. Volatility interpolation. Risk Magazine 24, 86–89.
Ausubel, L., 1991. The failure of competition in the credit card market. American Economic
Review 81, 50–81.
Barraclough, K., and R. Whaley, 2012. Early exercise of put options on stocks. Journal of
Finance 67, 1423–1456.
Baule, R., 2011. The order flow of discount certificates and issuer pricing behavior. Journal of
Banking and Finance 35, 3120–3133.
Ben-David, I., J. Li, A. Rossi, and Y. Song, 2019. What do mutual fund investors really care
about?, Unpulished working paper.
Bergstresser, D., 2008. The retail market for structured notes: Issuance patterns and perfor-
mance, 1995-2008, Unpublished working paper.
Bertrand, M., and A. Morse, 2011. Information disclosure, cognitive biases, and payday bor-
rowing. Journal of Finance 66, 1865–1893.
Bertrand, M., D. Karlan, S. Mullainathan, E. Shafir, and J. Zinman, 2010. What’s advertising
content worth? Evidence from a consumer credit marketing field experiment. Quarterly
Journal of Economics 125, 263–306.
Beshears, J., J. Choi, D. Laibson, and B. Madrian, 2011. How does simplified disclosure aﬀect
individuals’ mutual fund choices? In Explorations in the economics of aging, ed. D. Wise,
Chapter 2, 75–96. Chicago:University of Chicago Press.
Bessembinder, H., 2018. Do stocks outperform treasury bills? Journal of Financial Economics
129, 440–457.
Black, F., 1972. Capital market equilibrium with restricted borrowing. Journal of Business
45, 444–455.
Black, F., 1975. Fact and fantasy in the use of options. Financial Analysts Journal 31, 36–41.
Bordalo, P., N. Gennaioli, and A. Shleifer, 2016. Competition for attention. Review of Economic
Studies 83, 481–513.
Broadie, M., M. Chernov, and M. Johannes, 2009. Understanding index option returns. Review
of Financial Studies 22, 4493–4529.
Burth, S., T. Kraus, and H. Wohlwend, 2003. The pricing of structured products in the Swiss
market. Journal of Derivatives 11, 55–69.
Calvet, L., C. Célérier, P. Sodini, and B. Vallée, 2017. Can financial innovation solve household
reluctance to take risk?, Unpublished working paper.
Campbell, J., 2006. Household finance. Journal of Finance 61, 1553–1604.
Campbell, J., 2016. Restoring rational choice: The challenge of consumer financial regulation.
American Economic Review: Papers and Proceedings 106, 1–30.
Campbell, J., H. Jackson, B. Madrian, and P. Tufano, 2011. Consumer financial protection.
Journal of Economic Perspectives 25, 91–114.
Carlin, B., 2009. Strategic price complexity in retail financial markets. Journal of Financial
Economics 91, 278–287.
Carlin, B., S.Kogan, andR.Lowery, 2013.Tradingcomplexassets.JournalofFinance68,1937–
1960.
Célérier, C., and B. Vallée, 2017. Catering to investors through security design: Headline rate
and complexity. Quarterly Journal of Economics 132, 1469–1508.
Coval, J., J. Jurek, and E. Staﬀord, 2009. The economics of structured finance. Journal of
Economic Perspectives 23, 3–25.
Deng, G., T. Dulaney, T. Husson, C. McCann, and M. Yan, 2015. Ex-post structured product
returns: Index methodology and analysis. Journal of Investing 24, 45–58.
Di Maggio, M., and M. Kacperczyk, 2017. The unintended consequences of the zero lower
bound policy. Journal of Financial Economics 123, 59–80.
Duarte, F., and J. Hastings, 2012. Fettered consumers and sophisticated firms: Evidence from
Mexico’s privatized social security market, NBER Working Paper No. 18582.
Dupire, B., 1994. Pricing with a smile. RISK 7, 18–20.
Egan, M., 2019. Brokers versus retail investors: Conflicting interests and dominated products.
Journal of Finance 74, 1217–1260.
Elul, R., 1995. Welfare eﬀects of financial innovation in incomplete markets economies with
several qonsumption goods. Journal of Economic Theory 65, 43–78.
Fama, E., and K. French, 2015. A five-factor asset pricing model. Journal of Financial Eco-
nomics 116, 1–22.
Frame, W., L. Wall, and L. White, 2018. Technological change and financial innovation in
banking: Some implications for Fintech, FRB Atlanta Working Paper.
Gabaix, X., and D. Laibson, 2006. Shrouded attributes, consumer myopia, and information
suppression in competitive markets. Quarterly Journal of Economics 121, 505–541.
Gennaioli, N., A. Shleifer, and R. Vishny, 2012. Neglected risks, financial innovation, and
financial fragility. Journal of Financial Economics 104, 452–468.
Gennaioli, N., A. Shleifer, and R. Vishny, 2014. Money doctors. The Journal of Finance 70, 91–
114.
Ghent, A., W. Torous, and R. Valkanov, 2019. Complexity in structured finance. Review of
Economic Studies 86, 694–722.
Goetzmann, W., J. Ingersoll, M. Spiegel, and I. Welch, 2007. Portfolio performance manipula-
tion and manipulation-proof performance measures. Review of Financial Studies 20, 1503–
1546.
Greenwood, R., and D. Scharfstein, 2013. The growth of finance. Journal of Economic Perspec-
tives 27, 3–28.
Gurun, U., G. Matvos, and A. Seru, 2016. Advertising expensive mortgages. Journal of Finance
71, 2371–2416.
Hanson, S., and J. Stein, 2015. Monetary policy and long-term real rates. Journal of Financial
Economics 115, 429–448.
Hastings, J., A. Hortaçsu, and C. Syverson, 2017. Sales force and competition in financial
product markets: The case of Mexico’s social security privatization. Econometrica 85, 1726–
1761.
Heidhues, P., B. Kőszegi, and T. Murooka, 2016. Exploitative innovation. American Economic
Journal: Microeconomics 8, 1–23.
Henderson, B., and N. Pearson, 2011. The dark side of financial innovation: A case study of
the pricing of a retail financial product. Journal of Financial Economics 100, 227–247.
Henderson, B., N. Pearson, and L. Wang, 2020a. Retail derivatives and sentiment: A senti-
ment measure constructed from issuances of retail structured equity products, Unpublished
working paper.
Henderson, B., N. Pearson, and Li Wang, 2020b. Pre-trade hedging: Evidence from the issuance
of retail structured products. Journal of Financial Economics 137, 108–128.
Hortaçsu, A., and C. Syverson, 2004. Product diﬀerentiation, search costs, and competition
in the mutual fund industry: A case atudy of S&P 500 index funds. Quarterly Journal of
Economics 119, 403–456.
Hull, J., and A. White, 2013. LIBOR vs. OIS: The derivatives discounting dilemma. Journal of
Investment Management 11, 14–27.
Koijen, R., and M. Yogo, 2017. The fragility of market risk insurance, Unpublished working
paper.
Lerner, J., and P. Tufano, 2011. The consequences of financial innovation: A counterfactual
research agenda. Annual Review of Financial Economics 3, 41–85.
Levenshtein, V., 1966. Binary codes capable of correcting deletions, insertions, and reversals.
Soviet Physics-Doklady 10, 707–710.
Li, X., A. Subrahmanyam, and X. Yang, 2018. Can financial innovation succeed by catering
to behavioral preferences? Evidence from a callable options market. Journal of Financial
Economics 128, 38–65.
Lian, C., Y. Ma, and C. Wang, 2019. Low interest rates and risk taking: Evidence from
individual investment decisions. Review of Financial Studies 32, 2107–2148.
Martin, I., 2017. What is the expected return on the market? Quarterly Journal of Economics
132, 367–433.
Philippon, T., 2015. Has the US finance industry become less eﬃcient? On the theory and
measurement of financial intermediation. American Economic Review 105, 1408–1438.
Philippon, T., 2016. The FinTech opportunity, NBER Working paper.
Ross, S., 1976. Options and eﬃciency. Quarterly Journal of Economics 1, 75–89.
Schoar, A., 2012. Comment on Lerner, J. and P. Tufano, The consequences of financial inno-
vation: A counterfactual research agenda. In The rate and direction of inventive activity
revisited, ed. J. Lerner and S. Stern, Chapter 11, 576–578. Chicago:University of Chicago
Press.
Shefrin, H., and M. Statman, 1993. Behavioral aspects of the design and marketing of financial
products. Financial Management 22, 123–134.
Stein, J., 2013. Overheating in credit markets: origins, measurement, and policy responses,
Federal reserve board of governors working papers, Federal Reserve Board of Governors.
Szymanowska, M., J. Horst, and C. Veld, 2009. Reverse convertible bonds analyzed. Journal of
Futures Markets 29, 895–919.
Tufano, P., 2003. Financial innovation. In Handbook of the economics of finance, ed. G. Con-
stantinides, M. Harris and R. Stulz, 307–336.
Volcker, P., 2009. Think more boldly. Wall Street Journal.
Zingales, L., 2015. Presidential Address: Does finance benefit society? Journal of Finance
70, 1327–1363.
Figures and Tables
Panel A: Coupon rates of YEPs and synthetic YEPs
0.05.1.15Density0102030Coupon rate (%)YEPSynthetic
Panel B: Excess coupon rate of synthetic YEPs
44%0.02.04.06.08.1Density-20-1001020Coupon rate (%)Excess syntheticDominated YEPs
Fig. 2: Synthetic YEPs and dominated products
Panel A plots the distribution of annual coupon rates for YEPs and for their synthetic counterparts.
Synthetic securities are constructed using put options and lending as described in Section 4. Panel B
plots excess synthetic coupon rates calculated as the diﬀerence between the synthetic rate and YEP
coupon rate. Products highlighted in gray represent products that are dominated by their synthetic
counterparts, that is, products with positive excess synthetic rate. The vertical line in Panel B marks
the mean excess rate.
501001502001/20071/20091/20111/20131/20151/2017PUT IndexYEP Index, GrossYEP Index, Net
Fig. 3: YEP indexes
The figure plots the log index growth between May 2006 and December 2016 for YEP indexes with and
without fees, and for the PUT index. The construction of the YEP indexes is described in Section 5.1.
PUT Index is Cboe S&P 500 PutWrite Index.
Panel A: Full time series
0246810Fee p.a. (%)2006200720082009201020112012201320142015
0102030405060Volatility (%)2006200720082009201020112012201320142015
-6-4-202Expected ret. p.a. (%)2006200720082009201020112012201320142015
0.2.4.6.81Expected maturity2006200720082009201020112012201320142015
Panel B: Fees around mandatory disclosure
FirstletterFinalinstructionsImplementation3.54.55.56.57.5Fee p.a. (%)2012q12012q32013q12013q32014q12014q3All issuersHigh-feeLow-fee
Fig. 4: Fees, expected returns, and product characteristics over time
The figure shows the annual averages and 95% confidence intervals (with standard errors clustered at
the issuer level) of fees, expected returns, expected maturity, and volatility in Panel A, and quarterly
averages of fees in Panel B. Expected returns are estimated assuming the expected excess return on the
underlying equals µ−r = ˆβ×6% p.a. The vertical lines in Panel A depicts the year when the SEC
mandated disclosure of the issuer estimated fair value. Vertical lines in Panel B denote the quarter
when the SEC sent the first letter about the mandatory disclosure, the quarter when final instructions
for disclosure were published, and two quarters during which issuers implemented the disclosure.
Table 1: YEP example
The table presents an example of a product, its payoﬀ translation, and synthetic replication. Prices of
the underlying in the payoﬀ description and translation are normalized to 100 at issuance.
Panel A: Product characteristics
Name Reverse Convertible Notes No. 3296
CUSIP 78008TYE8
Volume $0.437 million
Initial strike date Nov 23, 2011
Term 3 months
Coupon rate p.a. 11.5%
Underlying JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Commission 1.75%
Panel B: Payoﬀ translation
Payoﬀ description This is an income product linked to the share of JPMorgan Chase. The product
oﬀers a coupon of 11.50% p.a., paid monthly throughout the investment period.
At maturity, the product oﬀers a capital return of 100%, if the final share level
is equal to or greater than the initial level or if the underlying does not fall
by more than 25% from its initial level at any time during the investment. If
the underlying does fall by more than 25% from its initial level at any time
during the investment and the final share level is lower than the initial level,
the capital return equals 100%, minus 1% for every 1% fall, paid in cash or in
shares.
Translated formula
PT =
{
100 if St ≥75 ∀t= 1,...,T
ST otherwise
Pm = 11.5 ×∆t for monthly observation datesm= 1,2,3
Panel C: Synthetic replication
Synthetic coupon 26.7%
Deposit income 0.1%
Option income 26.6% = (n1p1 −n2p2)/(S0D),
where option income is generated by short and long positions in put options:
Short leg:
Strike price: K1 = $21.00
Quantity: n1 = 8.38
Price: p1 = $0.82
Long leg
Strike price: K2 = $20.00
Quantity: n2 = 7.38
Price: p2 = $0.69
Day count using the expiry date of the options, Feb 18, 2012, isD= 85/360.
Face value equals the initial price of the underlying,S0 = $28.38.
Table 2: Summary statistics
The table reports summary statistics of product characteristics at issuance (Panel A), and inputs
to the pricing model (Panel B). Volume is issuance volume in million $. Coupon rate is the
product annual coupon rate extracted from its payoﬀ description. If the price of the underlying
falls below the Barrier level (in % of the initial underlying price), investors could lose some or all
of the principal value. Maximum term (in years) is the maximum maturity of a product if it does
not terminate early. ∆ is the estimated product delta at issuance. Broker’s Commission is in %
of product price. The sample consists of 28,383 YEPs issued between January 2006 and September 2015.
Panel A: Product characteristics
Mean Vol.-wtd.
average
Std. Dev. p1 p25 p75 p99 Observations
Volume 2.0 – 5.3 0.0 0.2 2.0 20.2 28,383
Coupon rate 12.8 11.8 4.7 5.8 9.6 15.0 28.7 28,383
Barrier 73.6 75.5 7.6 50.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 28,383
Maximum term 0.8 1.0 0.7 0.2 0.5 1.0 5.0 28,383
Commission 1.8 1.8 0.8 0.5 1.5 2.0 5.0 25,241
Panel B: Underlying factor loadings
Mean Vol.-wtd.
average
Std. Dev. p1 p25 p75 p99 Observations
ˆβ 1.6 1.6 0.8 0.3 1.1 2.0 3.9 27,289
ˆβSMB 0.4 0.3 1.0 -2.0 -0.2 0.9 3.6 27,289
ˆβHML 0.2 0.3 1.4 -3.9 -0.7 0.9 3.9 27,289
ˆβCMA -0.9 -0.8 1.8 -5.8 -1.9 0.2 4.2 27,289
ˆβRMW -0.2 -0.1 1.6 -5.6 -1.0 0.6 3.7 27,289
Table 3: Margins and embedded fees
The table reports estimates of product margins (Panel A) and annual fees (Panel B) obtained from
the pricing model described in Section 3.1. The first two columns of Panel A present the values not
adjusted for credit risk for the whole sample (first column) and for the subsample with available CDS
spreads (second column). The third column presents values adjusted for credit risk. Margin (in %
of issue price) is the diﬀerence between the fair product value and the issue price.Fees p.a. (in %)
are defined as the margin divided by the expected term of the product, where the expected term is
calculated using risk-neutral probabilities of early termination. Standard errors are clustered at the
issuer level and reported in brackets.
Panel A: Margins
Adjusted for credit risk
No No Yes
Full Sample CDS available CDS available
Mean 3.63 3.76 3.90
(0.19) (0.18) (0.19)
Vol.-wtd. Average 3.53 3.57 3.78
p25 2.48 2.69 2.80
p50 3.62 3.75 3.90
p75 4.62 4.71 4.88
Observations 28,383 21,617 21,617
Panel B: Fees p.a.
Expected term
Full Sample 2 −4 months 4 −8 months > 8 months
Mean 7.18 11.73 7.18 3.97
(0.51) (0.33) (0.32) (0.16)
Vol.-wtd. Average 5.73 10.69 6.43 3.81
p25 3.82 6.69 5.07 2.79
p50 6.13 11.11 7.07 3.95
p75 9.13 16.65 8.91 5.04
Observations 28,383 6,389 12,932 9,062
Table 4: Expected returns
The table reports estimates of net-of-fees expected returns of the products. The column labels indicate
the model used to estimate the expected return on the underlying.ˆβ is the CAPM beta. CRSPt is
the value-weighted average. SVIX is the 1-year equity premium based on the SVIX index (Martin,
2017). ˆβ is a vector of Fama and French (2015) factor loadings, andFF5t is a vector of the respective
mean factor values. Betas are estimated using24 −60 monthly returns preceding the initial valuation
date. Average factor returns are over the period from January 1996 until the last month before the
initial valuation date of the product. Panel A reports summary statistics of underlying factor loadings,
Panel B reports total returns, and Panel C reports annualized expected returns. The sample consists
of 27,289 products issued between January 2006 and September 2015. Standard errors are clustered at
the issuer level and reported in brackets.
Panel A: Total expected returns
Expected excess underlying return
ˆβ×6% p.a. ˆβ×8% p.a. ˆβ×CRSPt ˆβ×SVIX t ˆβ ·FF5t
Mean -0.87 -0.29 -0.41 -1.10 -1.04
(0.14) (0.14) (0.14) (0.23) (0.20)
Vol.-wtd. -0.18 0.47 0.34 -0.65 -0.20
average
p25 -2.27 -1.78 -1.89 -2.58 -3.17
p50 -1.1 -0.54 -0.66 -1.13 -1.09
p75 0.34 0.96 0.83 0.37 0.89
Observations 27,289 27,289 27,289 15,759 27,289
Panel B: Expected returns p.a.
Expected excess underlying return
ˆβ×6% p.a. ˆβ×8% p.a. ˆβ×CRSPt ˆβ×SVIX t ˆβ ·FF5t
Mean -2.61 -1.63 -1.84 -3.29 -2.86
(0.33) (0.32) (0.33) (0.44) (0.34)
Vol.-wtd. -1.09 -0.11 -0.30 -1.79 -1.12
average
p25 -5.03 -4.06 -4.29 -6.33 -6.58
p50 -2.03 -1.03 -1.24 -2.37 -2.19
p75 0.54 1.57 1.37 0.65 1.58
Observations 27,289 27,289 27,289 15,759 27,289
Table 5: Ex-post returns
The table reports estimates of product ex-post returns. Product return is the sum of the payoﬀ at
maturity and all coupon payments. Benchmark return is the cumulative return of delta equivalent
daily adjusted positions in the underlying equity and risk-free rate at maturity.Abnormal return is
the diﬀerence between product return and benchmark return. The sample consists of 27,578 products
issued between January 2006 and September 2015 and maturing before January 2018. Standard errors
are clustered at the issuer level and reported in brackets.
Product returns
Total returns Returns p.a.
Product Benchmark Abnormal Product Benchmark Abnormal
Mean -3.80 -0.45 -3.36 -2.62 4.74 -7.36
(1.27) (0.73) (0.63) (2.46) (1.80) (0.73)
Vol.-wtd. average -3.98 -0.74 -3.25 -3.46 2.47 -5.93
p25 -4.67 -0.67 -5.63 -7.01 -1.04 -11.60
p50 3.90 5.24 -2.39 10.10 11.65 -5.20
p75 7.00 8.95 -0.18 13.68 20.53 -0.34
Observations 27,578 27,578 27,578 27,578 27,578 27,578
Table 6: Dominated products
The table reports the fraction of products that are dominated by their synthetic counterpart constructed
using put options and lending as described in Section 4. The first column uses the closest option
expiration as the maturity of synthetic YEP and includes income from lending. The second column
excludes lending income. The third column uses the exact YEP maturity as the maturity of synthetic
YEP. The sample in columns 1 and 2 consists of 17,000 products issued between January 2006 and
September 2015 that can be statically approximated with up to two positions in put options and
lending. In column 3, the sample is restricted to YEPs with existing listed options that expire up to 40
days before the maturity of YEPs.
Fraction of dominated products
Specification Baseline Without lending income Exactly matching maturity
Equal weighted 43.60 33.88 27.90
Vol.-weighted 44.70 30.75 30.37
Observations 17,000 17,000 8,915
Table 7: YEP indexes
PanelAreportssummarystatisticsofdailyexcessreturnsofYEPindexesdescribedinSection5.1. Mean
and standard deviations are annualized. Newey-West standard errors with 20 lags are in parentheses.
Panel B reports four-factor regressions of daily excess returns of YEP indexes. Alphas are annualized.
Newey-Westt-statistics with 20 lags are in parentheses.
Panel A: Index summary statistics
Mean ex-
cess return
S.E. S.D. Daily skew Daily kur-
tosis
Observations
PUT 6.36 (3.50) 14.25 -0.19 30.06 2,688
YEP Gross 3.93 (5.29) 19.29 -0.18 18.18 2,688
YEP Net -0.90 (5.30) 19.24 -0.18 18.19 2,688
Panel B: Index factor loadings
Dep. var. YEP Gross YEP Gross YEP Net YEP Net
PUT 1.15 1.05 1.15 1.04
(29.27) (38.85) (29.38) (38.64)
SMB 0.24 0.24
(5.45) (5.44)
HML -0.01 -0.01
(-0.26) (-0.22)
Momentum -0.31 -0.31
(-7.07) (-7.02)
Constant -3.38 -3.12 -8.19 -7.91
(-1.15) (-1.24) (-2.75) (-3.11)
Observations 2,688 2,688 2,688 2,688
R2 0.72 0.80 0.72 0.80
Table 8: Fair value disclosure
Panel A reports summary statistics of the fair product values estimated using the pricing model de-
scribed in Section 3.1 (model value) and the estimated values disclosed by the issuers (issuer value)
following the 2013 introduction of fair value disclosure. Both values are reported as a fraction of the
issue price in %. The sample consists of 6,372 YEPs for which both the model value and the issuer
value are available. Panel B reports coeﬃcient estimates andt-statistics from versions of the regression:
yikt = βHigh-Feek ×Postt + Postt + λk + ϵikt,
where yikt is either annualized fee, margin, or volume sold of producti issued in quartert by issuer
k, High-Feek is an indicator equal to 1 for issuers with above-median fees in year 2012, Postt is an
indicator equal to 1 at any point after 2013q2, andλk stands for issuer fixed eﬀects. The sample covers
7,558 products issued in 2012 or between 2013q3 and 2014q2.t-statistics are based on standard errors
clustered at the issuer level.
Panel A: Summary statistics of estimated values
Mean Vol.-wtd.
average
S. D. p1 p25 p75 p99 Observations
Model value 96.42 96.78 1.27 93.41 95.63 97.21 99.75 6,372
Issuer value 96.61 96.92 0.91 94.14 96.10 97.20 98.61 6,372
Panel B: Eﬀect of fair value disclosure
Dep. Var. Fee p.a. Fee p.a. Margin Margin Volume Volume
Post ×High-Fee 0.63 -0.06 -0.97
(0.88) (-0.38) (-1.10)
Post -0.36 -0.91 -0.07 -0.01 0.38 1.23
(-1.41) (-1.40) (-1.14) (-0.09) (2.23) (1.41)
Issuer FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Observations 7,558 7,558 7,558 7,558 7,558 7,558
Online appendix for:
Engineering lemons
Petra Vokata†
Ohio State University
October 2020
†Ohio State University, 832 Fisher Hall 2100 Neil Avenue Columbus, OH 43210. E-mail:
vokata.1@osu.edu.
A Data Appendix
A.1 Platform Coverage
To confirm database is comprehensive, I validate its coverage with the filings in the EDGAR
system. I download all prospectuses filed as 424B2 forms between January 2002 and September
2015 and select all files that contain a CUSIP code and the keyword "linked," and that do not
include the keyword "ETN." I search the prospectuses for the list of CUSIP codes recorded by
the platform. TableA.1 shows the results of this exercise and indicates the platform has lower
coverage before the year 2006 and excellent coverage thereafter. Closer examination reveals
the prospectuses that do not match with any CUSIP code do not cover structured products
but mostly fixed-rate notes. In addition, the total issuance volume reported by the platform
for products issued in 2014 aligns with the aggregate volume of structured notes reported by
Bloomberg. Therefore, I believe the platform coverage of structured products from 2006 onward
is exhaustive.
Table A.1: Platform Coverage
The table reports the estimated platform coverage. I start with all prospectuses filed as 424B2 forms in
the EDGAR system between January 2002 and September 2015 and select all prospectuses that contain
a CUSIP code and the keyword "linked" and that do not include keyword "ETN."All prospectuses
reports the number of files that fit these criteria each year. Next, I search these prospectuses for a
list of all CUSIP codes recorded by the platform.Matched with platformreports the number of these
matched files.Estimated coverageis the number of matched files divided by the total number of files.
Year All prospectuses Matched with platform Estimated coverage (%)
2002 46 3 7
2003 95 1 1
2004 131 -
2005 136 13 10
2006 1,201 840 70
2007 3,893 2,840 73
2008 4,500 3,699 82
2009 3,176 2,923 92
2010 5,073 4,440 88
2011 7,571 6,959 92
2012 9,250 8,941 97
2013 9,729 9,386 96
2014 10,804 10,487 97
2015 8,854 8,266 93
2006–15 64,051 58,781 92
Table A.2: Final Sample by Year
The table reports the number of products and total issuance volume in the final translated sample by
issuance year. The sample consists of 28,383 YEPs issued between January 2006 and September 2015.
Issuance Year Number of products Issuance volume (million $)
2006 813 2,404
2007 3,506 8,502
2008 3,339 7,263
2009 1,995 4,292
2010 3,045 6,778
2011 3,135 6,853
2012 3,955 4,961
2013 3,354 5,110
2014 3,576 6,336
2015 1,665 3,176
A.2 Sample Selection
The platform covers 36,742 structured products ($124.841 billion) issued in the U.S. as regis-
tered notes between January 2006 and September 2015 (time of data retrieval) and categorized
as "income" products. The list below describes the criteria applied to construct the dataset of
YEPs and the number in product and issuance volume dropped due to each criterion.
(a) (8 products, $0.119 bn) I exclude products categorized by the platform as "Private Bank-
ing" products.
(b) (4,994 products, $61.039 bn) I drop products linked to non-equity asset classes for which
data on returns and implied volatilities are not available.
(c) (1,103 products, $2.373 bn) I exclude products with incomplete data for valuation: prod-
ucts that cannot be reliably matched to OptionMetrics IvyDB US or products with
incomplete payoﬀ information.
I use the resulting sample of 30,637 products ($61.309 billion) to train the translation algorithm.
The translated sample covers the most frequent payoﬀs, 28,383 products, and $55.675 billion of
issuance volume. Table A.2lists the number of products and issuance volume by issuance year
and TablesA.3 and A.4 present the largest issuers and the most frequent underlyings covered
by the sample.
A.3 Payoﬀ Validation
To validate the accuracy of the translated payoﬀ formulas, I use three independent data sources.
First, Ivalidatethecalculatedex-postreturnswiththeex-postreturnsreportedbytheplatform.
Table A.3: Issuers
The table reports the 15 largest issuers in the sample, the number of products they issued, and issuance
volume. The sample consists of 28,383 YEPs issued between January 2006 and September 2015.
Issuer Number of products Issuance volume (million $)
Barclays Bank 5,076 13,430
UBS 8,879 7,670
JPMorgan Chase 3,377 6,122
RBC 4,447 5,298
Citigroup Funding 282 5,199
Morgan Stanley 492 3,871
ABN Amro Bank 1,754 2,276
HSBC Bank 629 2,005
Deutsche Bank 501 1,869
Bank of America 56 1,770
SG Structured Products 476 1,369
Eksportfinans ASA 381 1,182
Svensk Exportkredit 24 613
Credit Suisse 302 515
Rabobank 188 459
Theadvantageofthisvalidationisthattheex-postreturnscanbecalculatedwithhighprecision
and one can therefore detect even relatively small deviations. The disadvantage of this approach
is that the platform covers only a subsample of ex-post returns and has a relatively small
coverage for autocallable products. More importantly, because platform analysts calculate
ex-post returns from the product characteristics recorded in the platform, comparison with
platform returns will not detect errors in the initial entry of product terms.
To address these concerns, I also compare the calculated ex-post returns with an indepen-
dent consulting firm that publishes approximate product returns on its website.1 The advantage
of this comparison is again the fact that the returns can be calculated with high precision. The
disadvantage is again low coverage of autocallable products even by the consulting firm.
Finally, Ialsocomparemyestimatesofproductfairvaluespostissuancewiththesecondary
prices reported in TRACE. Although the reported TRACE prices include markdowns and
therefore the comparison is less precise, they cover all types of product payoﬀs in my sample
and allow me to validate translated formulas even for autocallable products. In addition,
because TRACE prices are recorded directly by brokers, they are less prone to possible errors
in calculating returns that may be present both in the platform and consulting firm returns.
1I extracted the returns from product reports available at https://www.slcg.com/pdf/
tearsheets/.
Table A.4: Underlying Equities
The table reports the 40 most frequent underlying assets in the sample, the number of products that
are linked to them, and their total issuance volume.
Underlying Number of products Issuance volume (million $)
Apple 1,251 3,685
United States Steel 722 829
Freeport-McMoRan 711 1,234
Bank of America 458 1,170
Facebook 439 689
Peabody Energy 389 575
Ford 386 1,722
JPMorgan Chase 363 1,331
Las Vegas Sands 335 629
General Electric 329 1,401
Caterpillar 324 581
Chesapeake Energy 286 655
Halliburton 268 793
General Motors 252 801
Valero Energy 250 708
Alcoa 245 586
MetLife 241 726
Micron Technology 240 216
Genworth Financial 239 266
Amazon 238 466
Citigroup 228 367
Yahoo 223 431
BlackBerry 223 307
Netflix 222 261
United Rentals 215 219
First Solar 208 199
PulteGroup 205 91
Alpha Natural Resources 204 145
Wells Fargo 200 703
Deere & Company 200 566
Delta Air Lines 198 359
Silver Wheaton 198 235
Joy Global 196 231
Dow Chemical 195 517
Schlumberger 193 667
Cummins 190 310
Arch Coal 174 308
Morgan Stanley 174 228
Tesoro 170 224
SanDisk 163 298
I start my analysis with the comparison with TRACE prices because it reveals the most
important issue with the payoﬀ descriptions. In particular, I find 1,428 product-day-price
observations with significant deviations between mine and TRACE prices among products
with "Airbag" in the name. By comparing product terms in the prospectuses with the payoﬀ
descriptions recorded in the platform, I find the platform has an imprecise description of the
product payoﬀ at maturity in cases when the underlying drops below the barrier. That is, the
original textual description includes errors in the level of the payoﬀ drop at the barrier and
in the payoﬀ slope below the barrier. I correct these errors for all 1,280 "Airbag" products in
my final sample. After the correction, TRACE prices are highly correlated with my estimates
(99.1% correlation in a sample of 24,746 product-day-price observations). FigureA.1 plots my
estimates against TRACE prices. For more details about mean diﬀerences, see SectionC.1.
Cor: 0.991
0 50 100 150
Model Value (%)
0 50 100 150
TRACE price (%)
Figure A.1: Model values vs. secondary TRACE prices
The figure plots product fair values estimated using the pricing model described in Section 3.1 against
secondary prices (in %) reported in TRACE. The sample consists of 24,746 product-day-price observa-
tions.
I next turn to validation with the platform returns. Because TRACE prices include vari-
able markdowns and my fair values have to be estimated, they do not allow inspection of small
discrepancies. Ex-post returns, on the other hand, can be calculated precisely. Figure A.2
plots the returns calculated from the translated formulas against total returns reported in the
platform2 as well as against annualized returns published by the consulting firm.
2I exclude "Airbag" products from this analysis due to their imprecise descriptions in the platform.
Cor: 0.927
0 50 100 150
Calculated Return (%)
0 50 100 150 200
Platform Return (%)
Cor: 0.958
-100 -50 0 50 100
Calculated Return p.a. (%)
-100 -50 0 50 100
Consulting Firm Return p.a. (%)
Figure A.2: Calculated Returns vs. Returns Reported by Platform and
Consulting Firm
The figures plots returns calculated from translated payoﬀ formulas against total returns reported by
the platform and against annualized returns published by a consulting firm. The sample covers 14,439
products covered both by my sample and by the platform and 11,272 products covered by my sample
and by the consulting firm.
Before discussing discrepancies between the returns, two features of the figures deserve
comment. First, both figures display a high degree of correlation (ρ= 0.927 for platform returns
and ρ= 0.958 for consulting firm returns) with the majority of the observations lying close to
the 45-degree line. These patterns imply that the translated formulas are highly accurate and
that the platform returns are arguably a good data source to analyze ex-post performance of
the market. Second, comparison with the platform shows that, at least in the vast majority
of the cases, the platform returns include coupons paid over the life of the products, as do
my returns calculated from the translated payoﬀ formulas.Célérier and Vallée(2017) exclude
from their analysis of ex-post performance of the European market products that pay coupons
during the life of a product, because their data do not include coupon payment realization. I
find the U.S. database of the platform includes coupon payments in product returns.
I now turn to the inspection of two types of return discrepancies that emerge from the
figures. First, both figures show a number of cases (highlighted in red) in which the returns
disagree about whether the product paid back the full principal at maturity (N = 509 for plat-
form returns andN = 228 for consulting firm returns). Second, comparison with the platform
returns shows a number of cases in which the platform calculates lower coupon payments than
the translated formulas (highlighted in blue,N = 292).
The fact that the comparison with TRACE prices did not display the same diﬀerences in
expected principal repayment at maturity already suggests the discrepancies are more likely
driven by errors in platform or consulting firm returns. Nonetheless, I manually inspect the
observations in red (for the platform) for the three most common underlyings: Freeport-
McMoRan, Washington Mutual, and Deere & Company. I am able to track the majority
of the discrepancies in products linked to Freeport-McMoRan and Deere & Company to their
stock splits on February 2, 2011, and December 4, 2007, respectively. That is, the return in the
platform diﬀers because it appears to be based on non-adjusted prices, whereas my calculation
correctly uses adjusted prices. The discrepancies in products linked to Washington Mutual ap-
pear to be related to the reassignment of "WM" ticker to Waste Management after Washington
Mutual filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and was delisted.
As an additional check, I cross-validate platform discrepancies highlighted in red with the
returnsoftheconsultingfirminthetoppanelofFigure A.3. Theideaofthisexerciseistoclosely
inspect cases in which two data sources disagree with my returns. For the majority of the cases
in which mine and platform returns disagree, the consulting firm returns align with my returns.
I again manually inspect the observations for which even the consulting firm returns show
discrepancies for the three most common underlyings (Deere & Company, Freeport-McMoRan,
andLululemonAthletica)andtheyappeartobeagaindrivenbydiﬀerencesinsplitadjustments.
Finally, I analyze discrepancies in the blue observations with diﬀering coupons. The
bottom panel of FigureA.3 zooms in on these observations and reveals beam-shaped patterns
that appear to be caused by the platform applying shorter periods when calculating coupon
payments. I manually check a number of these discrepancies and confirm with the prospectuses
that the products pay fixed coupons independent of the performance of the underlying and
that the coupon payment period used in the translated formulas is correct. To sum up, neither
of the closer inspections reveal systematic errors in the translated payoﬀ formulas or in the
calculated returns.
Cor: 0.665
-100 -50 0 50
Calculated Return p.a. (%)
-100 -50 0 50
Consulting Firm Return p.a. (%)
100 110 120 130 140
Calculated Return (%)
100 110 120 130 140 150
Platform Return (%)
Figure A.3: Inspection of Discrepancies
The top figure plots returns calculated from translated payoﬀ formulas against annualized return pub-
lished by a consulting firm for those cases in which the returns from translated formulas disagree with
the platform returns about repayment of full principal at maturity (N= 298). The bottom figure is the
zoomed top-right quadrant of returns calculated from translated payoﬀ formulas against total returns
reported by the platform.
B Valuation Procedure
This section describes the valuation model used to derive fair values of the products. I use this
model to calculate product fees derived from their fair values at issuance, as well as secondary
prices used to construct YEP indices and calculate product deltas for benchmarking.
I follow previous literature (Célérier and Vallée,2017) and use a local volatility model
to value the exotic products in my sample. This approach is a generalization of the Black
Scholes model with constant volatility used, for example, byHenderson and Pearson(2011).
The main advantage of the local volatility model is that it treats volatility as a deterministic
function of spot level and time and, by construction, it correctly prices vanilla options for all
input strikes and maturities. Although the typical products in my sample are not vanilla, they
are equivalent to portfolios of vanilla options, and one can therefore derive their model-free
fair values by static or quasi-static replication.3 Therefore, the local volatility model will also
produce correct and approximately model-free values of these exotic payoﬀs.
I start by building the local volatility surface,σ(t,St). The model requires a full continuum
in strikes and maturities one wishes to price, but in practice, the researcher observes only a
discrete set of option prices. To interpolate volatilities between these discrete values, I use
Andreasen and Huge(2011) interpolation, which is non-parametric and arbitrage-free.4 As the
discrete set of market-implied volatilities, I use the out-of-the-money part of volatility surface
from OptionMetrics.
To extrapolate volatilities for strikes and maturities not spanned by the OptionMetrics
volatility surface, I use the volatility of the nearest maturity or strike price. In my context,
the eﬀect of extrapolation will be unimportant because the majority of the products are well
spanned by the OptionMetrics volatility surface. The surfaces span up to two-year maturities,
which is longer than the maximum possible maturity for 95% of the products. The average
strike at one-year maturity and delta of−20 is 76% of the initial underlying price, whereas
the average product barrier is 74%. In addition, in cases in which the product barrier is not
spanned by the volatility surface of OptionMetrics, extrapolating from the nearest strike is a
conservative assumption because the products have a negative vega and their volatility surfaces
have a negative skew.
Because most of the products are linked to a single-name stock, I extend the local volatility
diﬀusion with a negative jump on ex-dividend dates. The amount of the absolute dividend
payments is extrapolated from the past 12-month history.
Whereas the underlying diﬀusion model is the same for all products in my sample, the
3See, e.g., Allen (2013) for static replication of digital options and quasi-static replication of barrier
options.
4LexiFi Apropos, the pricing software that I use for validation andCélérier and Vallée(2017) use
for their fair value estimation, uses the same local volatility interpolation.
valuation approach I use depends on the product payoﬀ type. This approach is computationally
eﬃcient, which is important because I need to estimate fair values for 4.5 million product-day
combinations. When possible, I use the finite diﬀerence method to price the options embedded
in the product payoﬀ. That is, I first decompose the product into a fixed-income component
and option component and then use the model described above to price the embedded option.5
I price embedded binary options using a vanilla call spread, where the price of the vanilla
options is calculated with a finite diﬀerence scheme.
For path-dependent autocallable products, I use Monte Carlo simulations. To reduce
variance, I use a deterministic ("quasi-random") Sobol sequence generator and simulate 10,000
paths over 252 days in a year.
I use a similar valuation model to calculate the expected returns of YEPs in Section 3.4.
The main diﬀerence is that to quantify expected returns, I consider the undiscounted payoﬀs of
YEPs and use the expected return on the underlying,µt, instead of the risk-free ratert, in Eq.
5. I then again use either static replication, finite diﬀerence method, or Monte Carlo simulations
to quantify the expected returns depending on the YEP payoﬀ type. This estimation slightly
underestimates the expected total returns of YEPs, because it ignores potential reinvestment
of coupons paid before the product maturity.
B.1 Validation
I use commercial pricing software to cross-validate the accuracy of this complex estimation
procedure. I thank LexiFi for providing me with a temporary license of their pricing software
to perform this task. At the time when the license was available, my sample consisted of 21,390
products that I use for validation. The sample covered all payoﬀ types and therefore allows me
to validate accuracy across all payoﬀs as well as all valuation approaches.
5Tables D.1 and D.2show examples of this decomposition.
Cor: 0.953
90 92 94 96 98 100
Model Value (%)
90 92 94 96 98 100
Pricing Software Value (%)
Figure B.1: Validation with Pricing Software
The figure plots a binned scatterplot and fitted line of product fair values at issuance estimated with
the valuation model described in Section 3.1 against fair value estimates from pricing software. The
sample consists of 21,390 products.
Figure B.1 shows a binned scatterplot of my estimates and estimates from the pricing
software. The estimates are highly correlated (ρ= 95%) and their means are nearly identical
with a mean diﬀerence in fair values of 2.9 basis points. Both valuations use the same product
data, valuation inputs, and valuation approach, and therefore any diﬀerences are driven only
by a diﬀerences in the implementation. For example, the pricing software uses proprietary
adjuster and control variate methods, which decompose the product into a statically replicated
component and residual component priced with numerical methods. These adjusters improve
precision of the estimation, which is important in a context where the precision of each estimate
is crucial. In my context, the precision of my results emanates from the large sample size of
more than 28,000 products, in which idiosyncratic discrepancies in fair value estimates cancel
out.
As a second validation check, I compare my estimates with fair value estimates reported by
issuers in the prospectuses. FigureB.2 plots binned scatterplots of fair values and annualized
margins. Both estimates are again highly correlated,ρ= 61% for fair values, andρ= 87% for
annualized margins, although the correlation is lower than with the pricing software. One can
expect the correlation with issuer estimates to be lower for many reasons. First, the value of
the products is highly sensitive to the valuation inputs used, and these may diﬀer for issuer
estimates.6 For example, based on the instructions published by the SEC in 2013, issuers can
6For example, in Henderson and Pearson(2011) the correlation of baseline estimates with estimates
under alternative assumptions on implied volatility is only81 −87%.
use their internal funding rate to price the fixed-income component of the products. To price
the option component, issuers should mostly use mid-market inputs. These inputs should be
broadly consistent with the OptionMetrics volatility surface I use, but diﬀerences may exist in
the way issuers interpolate and extrapolate from observed market prices.
Cor: 0.612
94 95 96 97 98
Model Value (%)
94 95 96 97 98 99
Issuer Value (%)
Cor: 0.865
0 5 10
Model Margin p.a. (%)
0 5 10 15
Issuer Margin p.a. (%)
Figure B.2: Validation with Issuer Estimated Values
The figure plots a binned scatterplots and fitted lines of product fair values at issuance/issuer margins
p.a. estimated with the valuation model described in Section 3.1 against issuer estimates disclosed in
the prospectuses. The sample consists of 6,372 products with available issuer estimated values.
Second, issuers may use diﬀerent valuation approaches. To estimate the values, issuers
use proprietary pricing models and do not disclose any details on the models or assumptions
used. Diﬀerences in valuation procedures are more important for more complex products that
are more sensitive to the choice of valuation approach. I find that in the sample of less complex
products that can be priced without Monte Carlo simulations, the correlation between mine
and issuer fair values increases from61% to 81%.
Finally, important issuer heterogeneity may be present in valuation inputs and valuation
procedures that may be hard to capture by any consistent valuation method used by a re-
searcher. Consistent with this hypothesis, I find theR2 from regressing fair values (annualized
margins) on issuer estimates increases from 0.375 (0.748) to 0.428 (0.775) and 0.489 (0.814)
when adding issuer and issuer×product type fixed eﬀects, respectively.
For the purposes of my study, potential systematic bias is more important than idiosyn-
cratic variation in product values. I find that neither comparison with the pricing software, nor
with the issuer estimates shows economically important diﬀerences that could drive my results.
An ultimate test of any systematic bias is comparison of the ex-ante estimated margins or fees
with the ex-post abnormal performance. Section 3.5 shows my ex-post abnormal returns are
in line with the ex-ante estimates—both when using delta-hedged abnormal returns as well as
when estimating alphas from benchmark regressions of YEP indices.
As the last validity check, I again compare my estimates with secondary prices reported
in TRACE. This comparison serves both as a validation check of translating product payoﬀs
presented in the previous section, as well as of the fair value estimation procedure. Errors
in modeling payoﬀs should show up as significant non-linear deviations from the 45-degree
line, whereas systematic diﬀerences in fair value estimates should show up as mean diﬀerences
between mine and TRACE prices. Figure B.3 shows that my estimates are systematically
higher than secondary prices. The figure plots binned scatterplot of my estimates and TRACE
prices as well as the 45-degree line. Across the range of secondary prices, my estimates lie above
the 45-degree line, which is consistent with brokers charging markdowns on secondary prices.
The size of the markdown, discussed in more detail in SectionC.1, is in line with markdowns
reported in other bond markets.
Cor: 0.991
20 40 60 80 100 120
Model Value (%)
20 40 60 80 100 120
TRACE price (%)
Figure B.3: Validation with TRACE Prices
Thefigureplotsabinnedscatterplotofproductsecondaryfairvaluesestimatedwiththevaluationmodel
described in Section 3.1 against secondary market prices reported in TRACE. The sample consists of
24,746 product-day-price observations. The dashed line is a 45-degree line.
B.2 Comparison with Analytic Valuation
My baseline valuation uses the local volatility model and therefore correctly prices options
across the volatility smile. In a previous version of this paper, I assumed volatility to be
constant. This assumption significantly simplifies the valuation procedure and allows me to use
analytic closed form valuation to derive fair values for the majority of the products, similarly
as in Egan (2019). In this section, I compare the results of the analytic valuation with the
valuations based on local volatility.
For the purpose of analytic valuation, I assume the risk-neutral process for the underlying
asset is
dS = (r−q)Sdt+ σSdz, (1)
where S denotes the underlying asset price,r the risk-free rate of return,q the dividend yield
provided by the stock, andσ the volatility of the stock. In other words, I assume constant
volatility as well as continuous dividend yield. Under these simplifying assumptions, I can use
text-book formulas to price all but autocallable products.
Products without a knock-out feature can be valued using standard textbook (e.g.Hull
2018) formulas for option valuation. The price of aplain vanilla put option with strike price
K is calculated as
p= Ke−rTN(−d2) −S0e−qTN(−d1), (2)
where
d1 = ln(S0/K) + (r−q+ σ2/2)T
σ
√
T
d2 = ln(S0/K) + (r−q−σ2/2)T
σ
√
T
.
The down-and-in put option with barrierH is valued as
pdi = −S0N(−x1)e−qT + Ke−rTN(−x1 + σ
√
T) + S0e−qT(H/S0)2λ[N(y) −N(y1)]
−Ke−rT(H/S0)2λ−2[N(y−σ
√
T) −N(y1 −σ
√
T)],
where
λ= r−q+ σ2/2
σ2
x1 = ln(S0/H)
σ
√
T
+ λσ
√
T
y= ln(H2/(S0K))
σ
√
T
+ λσ
√
T
y1 = ln(H/S0)
σ
√
T
+ λσ
√
T.
The price for anasset-or-nothing option equals to
pa = S0e−qTN(−d1). (3)
Cash-or-nothing call and put options are priced as
cc = Qe−rTN(d2) (4)
and
pc = Qe−rTN(−d2). (5)
As valuation inputs, I use bi-linearly interpolated implied volatility from the four options
with the closest expiry dates before and after the option expiry date and the closest strike prices
above and below the option strike price. In cases in which one or more of the four options are
not available, I followHenderson and Pearson (2011) and take the implied volatility of the
option with the closest expiry date and the nearest strike price. As the risk-free rate, I use the
linearly interpolated rate from the two OIS rates with the nearest maturities.
To estimate the dividend yield of stocks, I follow the methodology of OptionMetrics. I
consider the dividend yield to be constant and equal to the most recent dividend payment
divided by the most recent closing price. Unless a dividend payment date is already declared, I
project the ex-dividend dates by extrapolating from the past dates and the most recent dividend
payment frequency. The predicted dates extend up to the maximum maturity of a product.
I then sum all predicted dividend payments over the life of a product and convert them to a
continuous dividend yield.
TableB.2 compares results from this analytic valuation with the results form local volatil-
ity valuation. The margins from analytic valuation are higher by 63 (9) basis points using the
equal-weighted (volume-weighted) average. To understand the drivers of the diﬀerence, note
the products have a negative vega, the underlying options have a negative skew, and their
strike prices are often out of the money. Therefore, analytic valuation based on the interpo-
lated volatility around the option strike price will tend to undervalue the products, because it
applies higher constant volatility across all spot prices. This eﬀect will be more pronounced for
products with more skewed volatility, such as for short-term products. That said, given that
the mean diﬀerence on a volume-weighted basis is not economically meaningful and that the
analytic valuation is computationally lighter and more transparent, it may serve as a reasonable
valuation procedure in many research applications.
Table B.1: Margins from Analytic Valuation
The table reports estimates of product margins obtained from analytic valuation described in this
section and from the local volatility valuation model described in Section 3.1. The sample consists
of 20,139 products with available closed form valuation under the assumption of constant volatility.
Standard errors are clustered at the issuer level and reported in brackets.
Margins
Analytic Local Volatility
Mean 4.21 3.58
(0.23) (0.23)
Vol.-wtd. Average 3.76 3.67
p25 2.88 2.26
p50 4.16 3.50
p75 5.44 4.70
Observations 20,139 20,139
C Secondary Market Markdowns
Asasupplementaryevidenceabouttheex-postperformanceofYEPs, Iestimatethemarkdowns
investors incur when selling the products before maturity. The products have relatively short
maturities and are intended to be held until maturity; therefore, selling them before maturity
should be less common. Nevertheless, I observe 24,746 sales from retail investors back to the
product providers using TRACE data.7
Panel A of TableC.1 presents summary statistics of secondary prices from TRACE and
respective fair values for the same product-day combinations. Consistent with brokers charging
markdowns on the products, the average secondary price is lower than the fair value estimate
from my valuation model. I define the secondary market markdown as the diﬀerence between
the secondary price and fair value divided by the fair value.
Panel B of TableC.1 shows the estimated markdowns categorized based on the time from
issuance or time from maturity. In addition, FigureC.1 plots a binned scatterplot and kernel
densities for the first 300 days after issuance and the last 300 days before maturity. Consistent
with the previous literature and SEC findings,8 I find issuers provide price support in the few
months after issuance. Immediately following the issue date, the secondary price is on average
1% higher than the product fair value. I also find the markdowns decline as the products
approach maturity. The average markdown is 2% in the period of more than 90 days after
issuance and more than 30 days until maturity, but less than 1% in the last 30 days.
These markdowns add to the poor performance of the YEP market and are consistent with
the relatively high trading costs in other bond markets (Bessembinder, Spatt, and Venkatara-
man, 2020).
7I follow the method of Dick-Nielsen (2014) to clean TRACE data.
8See SEC letter available at https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/895421/
000000000013009967/filename1.pdf
Table C.1: Secondary Market Markdowns
Panel A reports summary statistics of secondary prices. Fair value is estimated using the pricing
model described in Section 3.1. Secondary price (in %) is the price reported in TRACE divided by
the primary price reported in TRACE. Panel B reports estimated markdowns (in %) calculated as
Secondary price/Fair value−1. Standarderrorsareclusteredattheissuerlevelandreportedinbrackets.
Panel A: Summary statistics of secondary prices
Mean S.D. p1 p25 p75 p99 Observations
Fair value 86.7 22.6 20.6 75.9 102.5 113.1 24,746
Secondary price 85.3 22.6 18.7 75.0 101.0 110.7 24,746
Panel B: Markdowns
< 90 days after > 90 days after issuance < 30 days until
issuance and 30 days until maturity maturity
Mean -0.71 -2.00 -0.95
(0.33) (0.49) (0.37)
p25 -1.83 -3.18 -2.41
p50 -0.62 -1.70 -1.09
p75 0.60 -0.39 0.04
Observations 3,228 19,738 1,784
Panel A: After issuance
-3 -2 -1 0 1
Markdown (%)
0 100 200 300
Days Since Issuance Panel B: Before maturity
-2.5 -2 -1.5 -1 -.5 0
Markdown (%)
Days Until Maturity
Figure C.1: Secondary Market Markdown
The figures plot binned scatterplots and kernel densities of markdowns in secondary prices. Panel A
covers the first 300 calendar days after issuance and excludes the last 90 days until maturity. Panel B
covers the last 300 days before maturity and excludes the first 90 days after issuance. The secondary
price markup is the percentage discount in the price reported to TRACE over the fair value estimated
using the pricing model described in Section 3.1.
D.1 Additional Figures and Tables
Figure
D.1: Pricing supplement with disclosed issuer estimated value
Figure D.2: Investor suitability section of product prospectus
-100 -50 0 50
Return (%)
60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130
Synthetic YEP
Short Put x 8.38
Long Put x 7.38
Figure D.3: Construction of Synthetic YEP
The figure shows the construction of synthetic YEP for the example product described in Fig. 1 and
Table 1. Total return is on they-axis. Prices of the underlying on thex-axis are normalized to 100 at
issuance. The synthetic YEP can be thought of as a combination of a short position in a put option
and bull put spread.
70 80 90 100 110
1/2012 1/2013 1/2014 1/2015 1/2016
Autocallable Products Not Autocallable Products
YEP Index, Net
Figure D.4: YEP Net Index for Autocallable and Not-Autocallable Products
The figure shows decomposition of YEP Net Index to autocallable and not autocallable products. The
figure plots the log index growth between June 2011 and May 2016 when there are at least 100 out-
standing autocallable and not-autocallable products on each day. The construction of the YEP indexes
is described in Section 5.1. The figure demonstrates the contrast between manipulation-proof YEP
indexes and biased peformance measures based on average annualized returns of products with early
terminations conditional on performance as described in Section 5. The average total and annualized
return of autocallable products issued after June 2011 and maturing before June 2016 are−0.32% and
6.88% (N = 5,962), respectively. The average total and annualized return of not-autocallable products
issued after June 2011 and maturing before June 2016 are 0.01% and 0.13% (N = 6,364), respectively.
Although autocallable products appear to perform significantly better in terms of annualized returns,
theYEPNetIndexshowstheiraverageperformancewasinfactworsethanfornot-autocallableproducts
over the sample period.
0 .005 .01 .015
Kernel density
-250 -200 -150 -100 -50 0 50
Calendar days
kernel = epanechnikov, bandwidth = 6.6451
Closest listed option expiry - YEP maturity
Figure D.5: Diﬀerence between YEP Maturity Dates and Option Expiry
Dates
The figure plots the kernel density of the diﬀerence in calendar days between YEP maturity and expiry
date of the option with the closest expiry date to YEP maturity. The sample consists of 17,000 YEPs
used in the baseline specification of Table 6.
Table D.1: Example of Plain Vanilla Product
The table presents an example of a product with no exotic feature, its payoﬀ description, translation
into a mathematical formula, and decomposition into a bond and an option. Prices of the underlying
are normalized to 100 at issuance.
Panel A: Product characteristics
Name Airbag Yield Optimization Notes
Issuer UBS
CUSIP 90272G254
Volume $0.35 million
Year 2014
Term 12 months
Coupon rate 5.22%
Underlying Apple
Panel B: Payoﬀ translation and decomposition
Payoﬀ description This is an income product linked to the share of Apple. The product oﬀers
a coupon of5.22% p.a., paid monthly throughout the investment period. At
maturity, the product oﬀers a capital return of100%, if the final share level
does not fall by more than5% from its initial level. Otherwise the capital
return equals100%, minus1.0526% for every1% fall in excess of the initial5%
fall, paid in shares.
Translated formula
PT =
{
100 if ST ≥95
100 −1.0526(95 −ST ) otherwise
Pm = 5.22 ×∆t for monthly observation datesm= 1,...,M
Decomposition
Long bond,5.22% monthly coupon
Short 1.0526×put, K = 95
Table D.2: Example of Product with Binary Feature
The table presents an example of a product with a binary feature, its payoﬀ description, translation
into a mathematical formula, and decomposition into a series of conditional options. Prices of the
underlying are normalized to 100 at issuance.
Panel A: Product characteristics
Name Trigger Yield Optimization Notes
Issuer Barclays Bank
CUSIP 06741K361
Volume $7.21 million
Year 2011
Term 6 months
Coupon rate 9.93%
Underlying Nabors Industries
Panel B: Payoﬀ translation and decomposition
Payoﬀ description ThisisanincomeproductlinkedtotheshareofNaborsIndustries. Theproduct
oﬀers a coupon of9.93% p.a., paid monthly throughout the investment period.
At maturity, the product oﬀers a capital return of100%, if the final share level
does not fall by more than25% from its initial level. Otherwise the capital
return equals100%, minus1% for every1% fall, paid in shares.
Translated formula
PT =
{
100 if ST ≥75
ST otherwise
Pm = 9.93 ×∆t for monthly observation datesm= 1,...,M
Decomposition
Long bond, 9.93% monthly coupon
Short cash-or-nothing put,K = 75,Q = 100
Long asset-or-nothing put,K = 75
Table D.3: Example of Product with Knock-Out Feature
The table presents an example of a product that can terminate early, its payoﬀ description, translation
into a mathematical formula, and decomposition into a series of conditional options. Prices of the
underlying are normalized to 100 at issuance.Maximum termis the maximum maturity if the product
does not terminate early.Expected termis estimated under the risk-neutral probabilities of termination
on each observation date.Eﬀective termis calculated by evaluating the conditions for early termination
on each observation date.
Panel A: Product characteristics
Name Trigger Phoenix Autocallable Notes
Issuer RBC
CUSIP 78010UZA8
Volume $0.5 million
Year 2014
Maximum term 18 months
Expected term 5 months
Eﬀective term 3 months
Coupon rate 13.8%
Underlying Facebook
Panel B: Payoﬀ translation
Payoﬀ description This is an income product linked to the share of Facebook. The product oﬀers
a coupon of 13.8% p.a., paid quarterly, if the share level does not fall by 30%
or more from its initial level on the applicable quarterly observation date.
Otherwise, no coupon is paid for that observation period. The product can
terminate early on any quarterly observation date if the share level is greater
than or equal to its initial level. In that case, the product terminates with a
payout equal to 100% of the capital plus the coupon. At maturity, the product
oﬀers a capital return of 100%, if the final share level does not fall by 30% or
more from its initial level. Otherwise the capital return equals 100%, minus
1% for every 1% fall, paid in cash or shares.
Translated formula
PT =



100 if Sn <100,∀n= 1,...,M −1 and ST >70
ST if Sn <100,∀n= 1,...,M −1 and ST ≤70
0 otherwise
Pm =



100 + 13.8×∆t if Sn <100,∀n= 1,...,m −1 and Sm ≥100
13.8 ×∆t if Sn <100,∀n= 1,...,m −1, Sm >70 and Sm <100
0 otherwise
Table D.4: Regressions Explaining Dominated Products
The table reports coeﬃcient estimates andt−statistics from regressions of indicator variables for domi-
nated product (Column 1 and 2), excess synthetic coupon rate (Column 3 and 4), and issuance volume
(Column 5 and 6) on product characteristics. The sample covers 14,383 products that can be statically
approximated with up to two positions in put options and lending and for which data on commissions
are available. Dominated is an indicator variable for YEPs dominated by synthetic counterparts con-
structed in Section 4. Excess coupon is the diﬀerence between the implied coupon rate of synthetic
counterpart and YEP coupon. Volume is product issuance volume in million $.Commission is bro-
ker’s commission in %.Margin is product margin estimated in Section 3.3 minus broker’s commission.
Columns 1–4 and 6 include product type fixed eﬀects where the omitted category includes products
with embedded vanilla options, andBarrier and Digital product types embed barrier and binary op-
tions, respectively. t−statistics based on standard errors clustered at the issuer level are reported in
parentheses. *, **, *** indicate statistical significance at the 5%, 1%, and 0.1% level, respectively.
Dominated products, volume, and product characteristics
Excess Excess
Dominated Dominated coupon coupon Volume Volume
Dominated 0.0449 0.0243
(0.253) (0.607)
Commission 0.124*** 0.117*** 0.0173*** 0.0118** 0.0974*
(6.595) (4.773) (5.773) (4.340) (2.517)
Margin 0.0896*** 0.0918*** 0.0126*** 0.0126*** -0.0859*
(10.193) (15.849) (9.731) (8.630) (-2.936)
Coupon -2.137*** -0.422*** 1.337
(-8.375) (-5.800) (1.473)
Barrier 2.578*** 0.314*** -0.968**
(8.280) (9.798) (-3.760)
Product type
Barrier -0.608*** -0.522*** -0.060*** -0.0247* -2.023
(-11.730) (-5.970) (-9.008) (-2.948) (-1.864)
Digital -0.450*** -0.359*** -0.045*** -0.0183** -0.487**
(-9.413) (-12.862) (-9.906) (-4.336) (-3.174)
Underlying ×Maturity ×
Issuer ×Month FE No Yes No Yes No Yes
Observations 14,383 4,054 14,383 4,054 14,383 4,054
R2 0.188 0.729 0.257 0.837 0.000 0.752
Table D.5: Regressions Explaining Underlying Selection
The table reports coeﬃcient estimates and t−statistics from a linear probability model explaining
underlying selection in YEPs. The sample covers month-stock observations between January 2006
and September 2015 for non-financial U.S. stocks that belong to the 750 largest stocks by market
capitalization at the end of the previous calendar year. The dependent variable is an indicator variable
equal to 1 if the stock has been used as an underlying in the issuance month for at least one YEP.
Implied volatility is the volatility of calls with 30-days maturity and delta = 50 from the volatility
surface table of OptionMetrics at the end of the month preceding the issuance month.Log market
capitalization is the natural logarithm of the stock market capitalization at the end of the calendar year
preceding the issuance month.Log 1-month volumeis the natural logarithm of the stock volume during
the month preceding the issuance month.3-month return and 12-month return are measured over 3
and 12 months preceding the issuance month. Columns 1–6 include month fixed eﬀects. In addition,
Column 6 includes underlying fixed eﬀects. *** indicates statistical significance at the 0.1% level.
Probabilistic regression coeﬃcients andt−statistics
Implied 0.497*** 0.483*** 0.0645***
volatility (60.051) (53.187) (5.919)
Log market 0.0622*** 0.0360*** 0.0649***
capitalization (61.675) (27.056) (22.422)
Log 1-month 0.0947*** 0.0676*** 0.0635***
volume (108.761) (57.914) (28.436)
3-month -0.0342*** 0.0374*** 0.0120
return (-4.450) (5.236) (1.863)
12-month 0.0448*** 0.0484*** 0.0271***
return (15.394) (18.043) (10.762)
Month FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Underlying FE No No No No No Yes
References
Allen, Steven, 2013,Financial Risk Management. A Practitioner’s Guide to Managing Market
and Credit Risk, 2nd edition.John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Andreasen, Jesper, and Brian N. Huge, 2011, Volatility Interpolation.Risk Magazine, 24, 86–89.
Bessembinder, Hendrik, Chester Spatt, and Kumar Venkataraman, 2020, A survey of the mi-
crostructure of fixed-income markets.Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 55, 1–
–45.
Célérier, Claire, and Boris Vallée, 2017, Catering to investors through security design: Headline
rate and complexity.Quarterly Journal of Economics, 132, 1469–1508.
Dick-Nielsen, Jens, 2014, How to clean Enhanced TRACE data, Working paper.
Egan, Mark, 2019, Brokers versus retail investors: Conflicting interests and dominated prod-
ucts. Journal of Finance, 74, 1217–1260.
Henderson, Brian J., and Neil D. Pearson, 2011, The dark side of financial innovation: A case
study of the pricing of a retail financial product.Journal of Financial Economics, 100, 227–
247.
Hull, John, 2018,Options, futures, and other derivatives, 10th Edition.Pearson.