FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY 

In the Matter of 

the Continued Membership 

of 

Columbus Advisory Group, LTD. 
(CRD No. 126331) 

Notice Pursuant to 
Rule 19h-1 of the 
Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 

Date: October 8, 2020 

I. Introduction 
On August 19, 2020, Columbus Advisory Group, LTD. (“CAG” or “the Firm”) submitted 
a Membership Continuance Application (“MC -400A” or “Application”) to FINRA’s 
Department of Registration and Disclosure (“RAD”).1 The Application seeks to permit the 
Firm to continue in membership with FINRA, notwithstanding its statutory 
disqualification. A hearing was not held in this matter . Rather, pursuant to FINRA 
Procedural Rule 9523( b), FINRA’s Department of Member Regulation (“Member 
Regulation” or “Department”) approves the Firm’s Application and is filing this Notice 
pursuant to Rule 19h -1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act” or 
“SEA”). 
II. The Statutorily Disqualifying Event 
The Firm is subject to statutory disqualification, as that term is defined in Section 
3(a)(39)(E) of the Exchange Act , as a result of its continued association with Michael 
Patrick Murphy (“Murphy”) (CRD No. 2596905), a statutorily disqualified control person 
of the Firm.2 Murphy is subject to disqualification pursuant to SEA § 3(a)(39)(A) as a 
result of a Hearing Panel Decision issued by FINRA’s Office of Hearing Officers (“OHO”) 
on May 27, 2020 (“Decision”) that suspended Murphy from associating with any FINRA 
member in any capacity for a period of six (6) months.3 OHO found that Murphy willfully 
failed to amend his Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer 
(Form U4) to disclose federal and state tax liens/warrants in violation of Article V, Section 

1 See the MC-400A and related exhibits compiled by RAD, n/k/a Credentialing, Registration, Education and 
Disclosure (“CRED”) with a cover memorandum dated September 2, 2020, attached as Exhibit 1. 
2 See Firm CRD Excerpt – Owners, attached as Exhibit 2. Murphy has a 75% or more ownership interest in 
the Firm. 
3 See Decision, Dep’t of Enforcement v. Michael Murphy, No. 2017053843901 (May 27, 2020) , attached as 
Exhibit 3. 

2(c) of FINRA’s By -Laws and FINRA Rules 1122 and 2010. 4 In addition to his 
suspension, Murphy was fined $20,000. His suspension began on July 20, 2020 and will 
elapse on January 19, 2021. The Firm is seeking to continue as a FINRA member, 
notwithstanding Murphy’s continued association as the majority owner of the Firm, during 
his period of suspension. 
III. Background Information About the Firm 
A. Location of the Firm & Its Business Activities 
CAG is based in New York, New York and has been a FI NRA member since September 
2003.5 According to FINRA records, the Firm has one Office of Supervisory Jurisdiction, 
one branch office, employs four registered principals, two registered representatives and 
does not employ any statutorily disqualified persons apart from Murphy. The Firm engages 
in the following business: broker or dealer retailing corporate equity securities over -the-
counter; broker or dealer selling corporate debt securities ; underwriter or selling group 
participant (corporate securities other than mutual funds ); m utual fund retailer ; U.S. 
government securities broker; municipal securities broker; put and call broker or dealer or 
option writer ; and private placements of securities .6 The Firm is also a member of the 
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. 
B. Examination History 
In the past two years, FINRA completed one routine and two non-routine examinations of 
the Firm. The SEC also completed an examination, identifying several deficiencies. 
1. FINRA Routine Examination 
CAG was issued a Cautionary Action for the three exceptions noted on the examination 
completed on D ecember 6, 2018. 7 FINRA found , among other things, that the Firm 
operated outside its membership agreement by engaging in proprietary trading; failed to 
maintain its minimum net capital requirement (“MNCR”) and failed to file early warning 
notifications with FINRA when it fell below 120% of its MNCR; failed to establish and 
enforce adequate supervisory procedures related to trade corrections; and failed to 
adequately review and maintain business related electronic communications.8 

4 Id. 
5 See CRD Snapshot for the Firm at p.3, attached as Exhibit 4. 
6 See Excerpt from Firm CRD – Types of Business, attached as Exhibit 5. 
7 See Examination Disposition Letter dated December 6, 2018 for Examination No. 20180564604 dated 
October 31, 2018 and the Firm’s response dated November 30, 2018, attached as Exhibit 6. 
8 Id. at pp. 5-7. 

2. FINRA Non-Routine Examinations 
The Firm was issued a Cautionary Action for the two non- routine examinations.9 These 
examinations focused on the Firm’s failure to implement policies and procedures that were 
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with FINRA Rule 5310, 10 specifically with 
Supplementary Material .06. 11 Additionally, the Firm Failed to maintain accurate books 
and records as required by GAAP and maintain its MNCR for several periods between May 
2015 and September 2016.12 
3. SEC Examination 
The SEC examination of the Firm completed on August 31, 2020 identified failures to 
establish, maintain or enforce adequate written supervisory procedures in connection the 
supervision of private securities transactions, outside business activities attestations, and 
electronic communications. 13 In addition, the Firm failed to amend its procedures to 
properly reflect changes to applicable securities rules and regulations.14 

C. The Firm’s Disciplinary History 

The Firm has not been the subject of any formal regulatory action in the past two years. 
IV. The Firm ’s Proposed Continued Membership with FINRA and Proposed 
Supervisory Plan 
Considering Michael Patrick Murphy ’s (“Murphy”) suspension, which is in effect until 
January 19, 2021, and in accordance with FINRA Rule 9523(b), Michael McNul ty, the 
Firm’s Chief Compliance Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer will implement the 
following plan of supervision (the “Supervisory Plan”),15 agreed to by the Firm: 
1. The Firm is prohibited f rom allowing Murphy to access or utilize any Firm 
systems/platforms during the period of his suspension. These systems/platforms 

9 See Disposition Letters and Firm Responses thereto for Cause Examinations Nos.: 20170541912 dated 
January 11, 2019 and 20170550857 dated October 10, 2018, collectively attached as Exhibit 7. 
10 This rule requires, in part, that “a member and persons associated with a member shall use reasonable 
diligence to ascertain the best market for the subject security and buy or sell in such market so that the 
resultant price to the customer is as favorable as possible under prevailing market conditions.” 
11 Supplementary Material .06, requires in part, that “each member must have written policies and procedures 
in place that address how the member will determine the best inter -dealer market for such a secur ity in the 
absence of pricing information or multiple quotations and must document its compliance with those policies 
and procedures.” 
12 See Exhibit 7. 
13 See SEC Examination of Columbus Advisory Group, LTD, SEC File No. 8-65875 dated August 31, 2020, 
attached as Exhibit 8. The Firm’s response to this examination is due to the Commission on October 30, 
2020. 
14 Id. 
15 See executed Supervisory Plan, attached as Exhibit 9. 

include all electronic mail systems, social media platforms, trading platforms, and 
compliance/surveillance systems; 
2. The Firm will suspend Murphy’s remote access to all Firm electronic 
systems/platforms during the period of his suspension; 
3. The Firm is prohibited from allowing Murphy to access any incoming/outgoing e -
mails addressed to/from Murphy’s Firm email address or any hard- copy written 
correspondence directed to Murphy at the Firm’s address during his period of 
suspension; 
4. Once per we ek, the Firm will conduct a review of all any incoming/outgoing e -
mails addressed to/from Murphy’s Firm email address and hard-copy written 
correspondence to confirm Murphy has not had any contact with customers or 
engaged in securities business in violati on of his suspension. Documentation of 
each review will be kept segregated for ease of review during any FINRA 
examination; 
5. The Firm is prohibited from using Murphy as its executive representative as that 
term is defined under FINRA By-Laws, Article IV, Sec. 3, during the period of his 
suspension; 
6. For the duration of his suspension, the Firm will remove references of, or to, 
Murphy from its website, social media platforms, and communications; 
7. During the period of his suspension, the Firm w ill prohibit Murphy from the 
following activities: 
(a) being a signatory on the Firm’s bank accounts; the Firm’s annual corporate 
documents, or any other organizational documents; 
(b) from using the Firm’s debit and/or credit cards; 
(c) from acting in any capacity, either formally or informally; and 
(d) from attending any corporate meetings. 
8. Murphy will surrender his Key Card to the all Firm premises and the Firm will not 
permit Murphy to have access to CAG’s offices, records locations, employees or 
its customers during his period of suspension; 
9. Murphy will surrender to the Firm, all Firm-provided electronic devices (i.e. laptop, 
tablet, cell phone) that are used solely for business purposes during his period of 
suspension; 
10. The Firm is prohibited from allowing Murphy to conduct or supervise any securities 
or investment banking business at the Firm, either formally or informally , during 
his period of suspension; 
11. The Firm is prohibited from allowing Murphy access to Firm books and records 

during his period of suspension; 
12. Once per week, the Firm will perform an electronic sweep of all the Firm’s systems 
to ensure that Murphy has not access ed or attempted to access any of the Firm’s 
systems during his suspension. Documentation of each sweep will be ke pt 
segregated for ease of review during any FINRA examination; and 
13. Once Murphy’s suspension has elapsed, CAG will certify, in writing, that Murphy’s 
activities were monitored appropriately and in accordance with the Supervisory 
Plan. Copies of these certifications will be maintained and kept segregated for ease 
of review during any FINRA examination. 
14. The Firm must obtain prior approval from Member Regulation to change any 
provisions of this plan. The Firm will submit any proposed changes or other 
requested information under this Plan to FINRA’s Statutory Disqualification Group 
at SDMailbox@finra.org 
V. Discussion 
After carefully reviewing the records in this matter, FINRA approves the Firm’s request to 
continue its membership with FINRA, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein. 
In evaluating applications like these, FINRA assesses whether the statutorily disqualified 
firm seeking to continue its membership with FINRA has demonstrated that its continued 
membership is consistent with the public interest and does not create an unreasonable risk 
of harm to the market or investors. See Frank Kufrovich, 55 SEC. 616, 624 (2002) (holding 
that FINRA “ may deny an application by a firm for association with a statu torily-
disqualified individual if it determines that employment under the proposed plan would not 
be consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors”). Typically, factors 
that bear on our assessment include the nature and gravity of the statutorily disqualifying 
misconduct, the time elapsed since its occurrence, the restrictions imposed, and whether 
there has been any intervening misconduct. 
As of the date of this Notice, FINRA has determined that CAG’s continued membership is 
consistent with the public interest and does not create an unreasonable risk of harm. The 
Firm is subject to disqualification solely based on its owner’s current suspension, which 
will elapse on January 19, 2021. The Department recognizes the gravity of Murphy’s 
misconduct underlying his current suspension. However, Murphy’s disqualification 
prohibits him from being involved in any of the Firm’s business lines and its operations, 
until his suspension has elapsed. This, along wi th the stringent plan of supervision that 
prohibits Murphy’s involvement in any of the Firm’s business activities, systems and 
financial records and cuts off his physical access to the Firm’s premises, its employees and 
customers, mitigates any potential threat to the investing public. FINRA intends to utilize 
its examination and surveillance processes to monitor the Firm’s continued compliance 
with the Supervisory Plan in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 19h-1 and FINRA Rule 
9523. FINRA finds that these facts, in addition to a review of the Firm’s regulatory history, 
including recent examinations, militates in favor of approving the Firm’s continued 
membership in FINRA. 
Thus, FINRA is satisfied, based on the Firm's representations made pursuant to the 
Supervisory Plan that the Firm's continued membership in FlNRA does not create an 
unreasonable risk of harm to the market or investors. Accordingly, FINRA approves 
CAG's Application to continue its membership in FINRA. 
FINRA states that, to its knowledge CAG meets all qualification requirements for its 
proposed continued membership, the Firm is not a member of any other self-regulatory 
organization, and, other than Murphy, the Firm does not employ any other statutorily 
disqualified individuals. 
In conformity with the provisions of Exchange Act Rule 19h-1, the continued membership 
of the Firm will become effective within 30 days of the receipt of this notice by the 
Commission, unless otherwise notified by the Cornrnission. 
Marcia E. Asquith 
Executive Vice President, Board & External Relations 

Exhibits 

1. MC-400A and related exhibits compiled by RAD, n/k/a Credentialing, 
Registration, Education and Disclosure (“CRED”) with a cover memorandum 
dated September 2, 2020 
2. Firm CRD Excerpt – Owners 
3. Decision, Dep’t of Enforcement v. Michael Murphy, No. 2017053843901 (May 
27, 2020) 
4. CRD Snapshot for the Firm 
5. Excerpt from Firm CRD – Types of Business 
6. Examination Disposition Letter dated December 6, 2018 for Examination No. 
20180564604 dated October 31, 2018 and the Firm’s response dated November 
30, 2018 
7. Disposition Letters and Firm Responses thereto for Cause Examinations Nos.: 
20170541912 dated January 11, 2019 and 20170550857 dated October 10, 2018 
8. SEC Examination of Columbus Advisory Group, LTD, SEC File No. 8-65875 
dated August 31, 2020 
9. Executed Supervisory Plan