                 FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

KOI DESIGN LLC,                            No. 23-55704

             Plaintiff-Appellant,            D.C. No.:
                                          2:19-cv-07154-
 v.                                            TJH

MARRON LAWYERS, APC,
                                             OPINION
             Defendant-Appellee,

and

A. DOUGLAS MASTROIANNI,
DBA Mastroianni Law Firm; BLOOM
FIRM, APC; DOES, 1 through 25,

             Defendants.


      Appeal from the United States District Court
          for the Central District of California
      Terry J. Hatter, Jr., District Judge, Presiding

        Argued and Submitted October 7, 2025
                Pasadena, California
2             KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


                      Filed August 6, 2026

Before: Ronald Lee Gilman,* Kim McLane Wardlaw, and
Lucy H. Koh, Circuit Judges.

                     Opinion by Judge Koh;
     Partial Concurrence and Partial Dissent by Judge Gilman


                          SUMMARY**


                     Professional Liability

   The panel reversed the district court’s grant of summary
judgment in favor of Marron Lawyers, APC, in a legal
malpractice action brought by Koi Design, LLC, and
remanded for further proceedings.
    Koi sued Marron for breach of fiduciary duty, legal
malpractice, and negligent supervision under California law,
alleging that an associate previously employed by Marron,
A. Douglas Mastroianni, grossly mishandled a trademark
infringement litigation matter between Koi and Strategic
Partners, Inc. (“SPI”), which ended with the district court
granting SPI default judgment and treble damages,
eventually leading to Koi’s bankruptcy.



*
 The Honorable Ronald Lee Gilman, United States Circuit Judge for the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, sitting by designation.
**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC               3


    First, the panel held that the district court did not violate
Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(f)(2) because the district court did not
grant summary judgment in favor of Marron on a ground not
raised by the parties without giving Koi adequate notice.
    Second, the panel held that the district court erred in
granting Marron summary judgment. The panel held that
there were genuine disputes of material fact as to whether
Marron breached its duties to Koi, an essential element of
Koi’s legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty claims.
Breaches of the California Rules of Professional Conduct
may be used to prove that a lawyer has breached his fiduciary
duties or has breached the standard of care for a legal
malpractice claim. Marron owed two duties to Koi: first, a
duty to disclose to Koi material facts and significant
developments in the SPI litigation; and second, an obligation
to adequately supervise its employees. The panel concluded
that, construing the facts in the light most favorable to Koi
and drawing all reasonable inferences in Koi’s favor, a
reasonable jury could find that Marron breached its duty to
disclose and its duty to supervise.
    The panel also held that there were genuine disputes of
material fact as to whether Marron’s conduct caused Koi
harm, a necessary element for all three of Koi’s claims. The
parties agreed that substantial factor causation applied to
Koi’s legal malpractice and negligent supervision claims but
disagreed as to whether substantial factor or but for
causation applied to the breach of fiduciary duty claim. The
panel concluded that this dispute was immaterial because, on
the facts of this case, substantial factor causation required
the panel to apply the but for causation test to all of Koi’s
claims. Under the but for causation test, Koi was required to
show that it would have obtained a more favorable judgment
or settlement in the SPI litigation but for Marron’s conduct.
4          KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


A reasonable jury could find that it was more likely than not
that Koi would have obtained a more favorable judgment in
the SPI litigation with competent counsel because the district
court in the SPI litigation granted SPI default judgment and
treble damages in part because of Mastroianni’s misconduct,
including while Mastroianni was employed at Marron. A
reasonable jury also could conclude that but for Marron’s
conduct, Koi would have replaced Mastroianni with
competent counsel based on the fact that Koi immediately
replaced Mastroianni in the SPI litigation when Koi
discovered Mastroianni’s gross mishandling of the litigation
and based on the testimony of Koi’s CEO.
    Accordingly, the panel reversed the district court’s grant
of summary judgment and remanded for further proceedings.
    Concurring in part and dissenting in part, Judge Gilman
disagreed with the majority’s analysis regarding the
causation element of Koi’s three claims. In Judge Gilman’s
view, under the first step of the substantial factor analysis,
Koi failed to raise a genuine dispute of material fact as to but
for causation for any of its claims. Under the second step of
the substantial factor analysis, Koi failed to raise a genuine
issue of material fact that Marron’s actions were a
concurrent independent cause of Koi’s damages for its legal
malpractice and negligent supervision claims, and so he
would affirm the district court’s grant of summary judgment
on those claims.
    Judge Gilman agreed, however, that Koi raised a genuine
dispute of material fact on the causation element of Koi’s
breach of fiduciary duty claim, so he would reverse the
district court’s grant of summary judgment on that claim. In
Judge Gilman’s view, Marron’s actions were a concurrent
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           5


independent cause of Koi’s damages for Koi’s breach of
fiduciary duty claim.



                        COUNSEL

Joshua I. Epstein (argued), Ronald W. Makarem, and
Samuel D. Almon, Makarem & Associates APLC, Los
Angeles, California, for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Randall A. Miller (argued) and Zachary Mayer, Miller
Waxler, LLP, Los Angeles, California, for Defendant-
Appellee.



                        OPINION

KOH, Circuit Judge:

    Koi Design LLC (“Koi”) sued Marron Lawyers, APC
(“Marron”) for breach of fiduciary duty, legal malpractice,
and negligent supervision under California law. Koi alleged
that an associate previously employed by Marron, A.
Douglas Mastroianni (“Mastroianni”), grossly mishandled a
trademark infringement litigation matter between Koi and
Strategic Partners, Inc. (“SPI”), eventually leading to Koi’s
bankruptcy. The district court granted summary judgment in
favor of Marron on all claims. We reverse and remand for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
6          KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


                       BACKGROUND
I. Factual Background
    Marron is a small law firm with approximately eight to
ten attorneys. Marron hired Mastroianni as an associate in
April 2016. Also in April 2016, Koi retained Marron to
represent it in a pre-litigation trademark dispute with SPI,
one of Koi’s competitors in the manufacture and sale of
medical scrubs. On January 11, 2017, SPI sued Koi in the
United States District Court for the Central District of
California, alleging that Koi’s medical scrubs had infringed
a trademark owned by SPI (“SPI Litigation”). Marron was
Koi’s counsel of record in the SPI Litigation, and
Mastroianni was the lead attorney.
    While an associate at Marron, Mastroianni’s
representation of Koi in the SPI Litigation immediately ran
into problems. Mastroianni failed to file a responsive
pleading to SPI’s complaint on Koi’s behalf by the February
2, 2017 deadline. On February 3, 2017, the district court
issued an order to show cause directing SPI to seek entry of
default, dismiss the complaint, or file a declaration regarding
the status of the case. In response to the order to show cause,
counsel for both parties filed a joint stipulation extending
Koi’s time to answer SPI’s complaint to March 2, 2017,
which the court deemed “satisfactory.” Mastroianni then
filed an answer by the new deadline, but that answer did not
comply with the Central District of California’s Local Rule
7.1-1, requiring Koi to file a Notice of Interested Parties.
   Significantly, Marron did not inform Koi of
Mastroianni’s failure to file a timely answer or the court’s
order to show cause.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC              7


    Mastroianni’s failure to comply with court deadlines
persisted. The district court set an initial scheduling
conference for May 15, 2017, and in a court order reminded
the parties of their obligations under Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 26(f) (“Rule 26(f)”) to “confer on a discovery
plan not later than 21 days before the scheduling conference
and to file a ‘Joint Rule 26(f) Report’ with the Court . . . not
later than 7 days before the scheduling conference.” The
court warned that “[f]ailure to comply . . . or to cooperate in
the preparation of the Joint Rule 26(f) Report may lead to the
imposition of sanctions.” Despite these warnings,
Mastroianni failed to meet and confer with SPI’s counsel and
did not participate in preparing the Joint Rule 26(f) report.
SPI’s counsel reached out to Mastroianni four times to
schedule the required meet and confer, but Mastroianni
never responded. On May 8, 2017, SPI filed a Notice of
Defendant’s Refusal to Participate in a Rule 26(f)
Conference, informing the court that Mastroianni “ignored
all communications attempting to schedule a conference.”
SPI attached an exhibit showing that Mastroianni had failed
to respond to four emails over ten days. SPI also unilaterally
filed a Rule 26(f) report, in which SPI argued that entry of
default and default judgment against Koi was appropriate
under the circumstances.
    No one at Marron informed Koi of Mastroianni’s failure
to participate in the Rule 26(f) process, or that SPI had filed
a Notice informing the court of Mastroianni’s
noncompliance.
   Then, just three days before the May 15, 2017 scheduling
conference, Mastroianni filed an ex parte application to
continue the conference. In the application, Mastroianni
explained that his failure to cooperate with SPI’s counsel
was the result of a “series of errors.” First, Mastroianni had
8            KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


“frequent absences from the office due to treatment for an
on-going medical condition.” Second, Mastroianni
“assigned the day-to-day handling of this matter to [an]
associate” but when “that associate subsequently left
[Marron,] the matter was not reassigned.” Third, “events in
this action . . . were inadvertently not calendared by
[Marron’s] calendaring system.” Finally, Mastroianni was
not receiving ECF notifications for the matter,
“compounding errors.”
    Again, no one at Marron informed Koi of Mastroianni’s
ex parte application or the concerning information contained
in the application.
    At the time of these developments in the SPI Litigation,
Mastroianni failed to add any paralegal to his Case
Management/Electronic Case Files (“CM/ECF”) account.1
This meant that no Marron paralegal received notifications
for filings in the SPI Litigation, including the filing of the
district court’s order to show cause, SPI’s Notice of
Defendant’s Refusal to Participate in a Rule 26(f)
Conference, SPI’s unilateral Rule 26(f) report, and
Mastroianni’s ex parte application. Mastroianni’s failure to
add a paralegal to his CM/ECF account was a violation of
Marron’s internal policies. Marron’s sole and managing
shareholder who had overall managerial authority over the
firm, Paul Marron (“Paul”), testified that he did not learn of
Mastroianni’s policy violation until after Mastroianni was
terminated. The record suggests, however, that at least one
paralegal, Mini Leano (“Mini”), knew Mastroianni was not
complying with Marron’s policy and had sent Mastroianni

1
 CM/ECF is used by the federal judiciary to allow for electronic filing
of documents in federal court cases and to notify parties of filings in their
cases.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            9


“emails following up on [Mastroianni’s] CM-ECF logins.”
Paul stated in an email that, “[h]ad Mini brought this to our
attention sooner, it would have led to termination and/or
triggered investigation.”
    In addition to not notifying Koi of these developments in
the SPI Litigation, Marron did not disclose to Koi that
Marron had serious concerns regarding Mastroianni’s
performance. In the days leading up to Mastroianni’s
termination on May 31, 2017, Paul sent numerous internal
emails detailing Mastroianni’s incompetence and discussing
the need to terminate Mastroianni.
    For example, on May 23, 2017, Paul emailed
Mastroianni (referred to as “Doug” in emails) regarding an
ex parte application in a different matter. In the email, Paul
instructed Mastroianni to work with Marron associate Bill
Hendricks (“Bill”) and paralegal Angie Urbina (“Angie”) to
prevent further “missed deadlines.” Paul wrote:

       Doug – Re below, below is obviously a ball
       dropped that should not have happened, and
       I don’t want to have to continue to get
       engaged in pressing so much for basics to get
       done/that they have been done. On this end,
       it is a management issue and the management
       of the cases has to improve. You are going to
       need to work more with Bill/Angie on these
       issues. Give Bill assignments where
       appropriate. You have a pattern of selflessly
       volunteering to get more done than might
       reasonably be expected. This then results in
       missed deadlines or lapsed priorities. Bill is a
       resource to prevent things like this. He also
       has a good eye for the calendar so I am asking
10        KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


       him to get more assertive and engaged on
       these issues, but this is not a ‘dig’ at you. . . .
       Work with Bill to get the ex parte done.

   Even though Angie was a paralegal and Mastroianni was
an attorney, Paul, on May 24, appointed Angie to be
Mastroianni’s “minder” to ensure that a deadline in an
unidentified matter was met:

       Angie – You are appointed Doug’s “minder”
       on this so it gets done, a must for Th[ursday].

    On the same day, Paul emailed the office administrator
stating that Mastroianni was creating a discouraging
situation for Bill and frustrating other Marron employees.
Paul discussed the need to terminate Mastroianni because
Mastroianni’s conduct posed repeated malpractice and client
relation risks:
       I would appreciate your insight into whether
       we could . . . fire Doug. His stunt(s) re the
       [REDACTED] ex parte and also creating a
       very discouraging situation for Bill are
       approaching the end of my patience. Apart
       from patience, he is pretty clearly doing
       things repeatedly that are malpractice risks
       and/or although at a minor level so far, signs
       of potential serious failure/omission.
       I gave him some respite and patience either
       yesterday or Monday – yet he went off
       reckless again re his inability to personally
       manage himself, yesterday or Tuesday giving
       notice of the ex parte for tomorrow - - when
       he flew to PHX Tuesday evening with the
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC          11


       papers incomplete. Said he would be back in
       the office this am and did not show up, or let
       me know (did he let you?). When Angie left
       today she reported the papers were not done.
       Perhaps he will be in the office 4 am
       Th[ursday] to get the papers done but even if
       that the disorganization is too pervasive and
       malpractice and client relation risk [sic]. Not
       to mention frustration of fellow employees
       and what is becoming an ever greater
       distraction for me when I should be prepping
       for [REDACTED] trial.

   The next day, May 25, Paul told several Marron
employees, including Bill, to stay subtle about Mastroianni’s
impending termination and noted that Bill would be taking
over a matter from Mastroianni:

       No term[ination] Friday . . . . Stay subtle re
       term[ination]. Announce to Doug, Fri,
       however that Bill is taking over and fully in
       charge on [REDACTED] and Doug is to give
       him info and cooperate and take
       assignments. . . . Basically we need to ease
       into the Term[ination] which will be Tu or
       Wed. I will offer Doug chance to defend next
       week Depos on short term [independent
       contract] but we also will want to stay
       focused on moving on.”

   On May 26, Paul again emailed the office administrator
about the amount of time Paul had to spend supervising
12         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


Mastroianni and the repeated problems Mastroianni created
on his cases:

       Note [Mastroianni’s] lapses have been
       chewing up as much as 2 to 3 hours in a day,
       routinely, and for approx. 6 weeks. Yesterday
       it was the entire day (6 hours). He is a major
       drain on my time as I have to overly supervise
       him on cases where I am involved and
       repeated problems on cases he was
       responsible for.

    Later that same day, Paul sent the office administrator
another email, noting that Paul had to tell Mastroianni to get
an assignment done four times in one week:

       D[oug]’s Personnel, point being that I had to
       tell him to do this on a Th[ursday], after
       having told him 3x orally over the prior week
       to do so.

    Several days later, on May 30, Bill told Paul and the
office administrator that Doug was wrong about a deadline,
and that paralegal Angie was correct:

       Doug is still responding to some emails. I
       don’t know what that means but just fyi. Also,
       Angie is correct – those are deadlines in
       [REDACTED], not [REDACTED.] PBA and
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC        13


       I decided we are not filing anything
       tomorrow on that.

   Finally, also on May 30, Paul emailed the office
administrator about Mastroianni’s formal termination:

       Note – Formal termination decision made
       Friday [May 26]. He has intentionally (he has
       to know he will be terminated given his
       behaviors) or with gross indifference not
       come in to work – thus avoiding presentation
       of term letter because he has not been in to
       work [sic.].

    Marron terminated Mastroianni on May 31, 2017. In its
termination letter, written by the office administrator,
Marron again documented Mastroianni’s incompetence,
malpractice risks, and the negative effect that Mastroianni
had on his colleagues. The termination letter noted the
following failures, among others, in a bulleted list:

       •   “Failure to either timely respond, or
           respond at all, to e-mail communications,
           telephone        calls,    and    written
           correspondence/documentation sent by
           clients, counsel and fellow Marron
           Lawyers’ staff members”;
       •   “Your consistent omission to plan ahead
           for filing and/or service of necessary
           documents, essentially waiting until the
           eleventh-hour, which in turn resulted in
           disruption, chaos for the paralegals and
           admin staff, harmed morale and overall
14       KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


         effectiveness and increased rush attorney
         service charges which then had to be
         passed on to the client”;
     •   “ . . . exposed the Firm to potential State
         Bar complaint; as well as malpractice
         action for failure to properly reject [a
         potential client]. Your omissions required
         my [the office administrator’s] and Paul
         Marron’s repeated interventions, yet you
         still failed to correct the matter. Even after
         a rejection, you claimed to have told
         [REDACTED] you would find her
         another attorney. You then reported to a
         number of us that you have referred her
         to another attorney. I then contacted
         [REDACTED], and she stated she had
         not heard from you regarding a
         referral. . . ”;
     •   “You have placed yourself in a position
         where a number of your peers doubt your
         word on certain issues, feel you have to
         be verified or checked, etc. Combined
         with ignoring deadlines, not being
         prepared,       not       communicating,
         communicating in a way that may be
         deceptive or misleading, etc. your
         increasing impact on peers has ranged
         from undermining morale to distrust, to
         what could be called as major doubts.
         This in turn has resulted in an absolutely
         unacceptable situation where hours and
         hours of your peers’ time had to address
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC          15


           both your shortcomings and lapses in
           work”;
       •   “A final exceedingly important point is
           that on an increasing basis, your lapses
           resulted in situations where, if your peers
           and administration did not jump in and
           take action, you would have exposed the
           Firm to malpractice liability or other
           complaints,       disservice/damage      to
           clients/their cases and damage to the
           Firm’s reputation (again despite strong
           efforts in some respects). By the end,
           there was a near certainty that unless you
           were let go, such would happen.”

    Despite these numerous documented issues with
Mastroianni’s performance, Marron never raised any
concerns to Koi. During a June 16, 2017 phone call between
Bill and Koi’s CEO, Kathy Peterson (“Peterson”), Peterson
“specifically asked whether [she] had any reason to be
concerned” about Mastroianni’s handling of the SPI
Litigation. Peterson further “inquired about the cause of Mr.
Mastroianni’s sudden departure.” Bill responded “that he
was not in ‘the meeting,’ leading [Peterson] to believe that
he did not know the reason for Mr. Mastroianni’s departure.”
Bill then directed Peterson “to speak with Mr. Mastroianni,”
and “gave [Peterson] no indication that there was a reason to
be concerned.”
    Following his termination from Marron, Mastroianni
joined the Bloom Firm, APC (“Bloom”) sometime in June
2017. Mastroianni continued to represent Koi in the SPI
Litigation while at Bloom. The SPI Litigation ended with the
district court imposing terminating sanctions on Koi and
16             KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


granting default judgment to SPI because “Koi repeatedly,
unjustifiedly [sic], and continuously failed to comply with
Magistrate Judge Gail Standish’s lawful orders.” The district
court awarded SPI $5,266,380.68 in damages, in part by
trebling Koi’s alleged profits from infringing SPI’s
trademark.
    When Koi discovered the case terminating sanctions and
default judgment, Koi promptly terminated Mastroianni,
retained new counsel, and filed a motion to vacate the default
judgment. The magistrate judge issued a report
recommending that the district court deny Koi’s motion
(“Report and Recommendation”). The district court adopted
the Report and Recommendation in full.
   On January 25, 2019, Koi filed for bankruptcy protection
because of the default judgment.
II. Procedural Background
    On July 1, 2019, Koi sued Mastroianni, Marron, and
Bloom for breach of fiduciary duty, legal malpractice, and
negligent supervision for their conduct during the SPI
Litigation.2 Bloom settled with Koi for $1,109,999.84 in
June 2021.
    Relevant to this appeal, Marron filed a motion for
summary judgment on all of Koi’s claims against Marron on
February 17, 2022. The district court granted summary
judgment in favor of Marron only on Koi’s legal malpractice
claim. The court denied Marron’s request for summary
judgment on Koi’s breach of fiduciary duty claim and did
not address Koi’s negligent supervision claim. Marron then
filed a motion for “clarification and correction,” arguing that

2
    Koi’s complaint asserted other claims not relevant to this appeal.
            KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC                17


the district court erred in denying summary judgment on the
breach of fiduciary duty claim and pointing out that the
district court had failed to address Koi’s negligent
supervision claim. Koi filed an opposition to the motion, in
which Koi argued that the district court erred in granting
summary judgment on a ground not raised by the parties
without adequate notice, in violation of Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 56(f)(2) (“Rule 56(f)(2)”).
    The district court issued an amended summary judgment
order on August 11, 2022. The amended order granted
summary judgment in favor of Marron on the legal
malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, and negligent
supervision claims solely on the grounds that Koi had not
established that Marron’s alleged conduct caused Koi’s
injuries. The amended order did not address Koi’s
inadequate notice argument. The amended summary
judgment order was merged into the final judgment in the
case on July 11, 2023, when the district court granted default
judgment against Mastroianni for $6,529,950.86.3 This
timely appeal followed.
                    STANDARD OF REVIEW
    We review the district court’s grant of summary
judgment de novo. Merrick v. Hilton Worldwide, Inc., 867
F.3d 1139, 1145 (9th Cir. 2017). “Summary judgment is
appropriate if—construing the facts in the light most
favorable to the nonmoving party and drawing all reasonable
inferences in that party’s favor—there is no genuine dispute
of material fact, such that judgment is appropriate as a matter

3
  We resolve Mastroianni’s appeal of this default judgment in a
concurrently filed memorandum disposition, in which we affirm the
district court’s grant of default judgment. See Koi Design LLC v. A.
Mastroianni, No. 23-55724.
18         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


of law.” Id. A “dispute about a material fact is ‘genuine’ . . .
if the evidence is such that a reasonable jury could return a
verdict for the nonmoving party.” Anderson v. Liberty Lobby,
Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248 (1986).
    Where, as here, the nonmoving party bears the burden of
proof at trial, the moving party may secure summary
judgment by “‘showing’—that is, pointing out to the district
court—that there is an absence of evidence to support the
nonmoving party’s case.” Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S.
317, 325 (1986). When the moving party satisfies its initial
burden, “‘the burden shifts to the non-moving party to set
forth, by affidavit or as otherwise provided in Rule 56,
specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial.’”
Fed. Trade Comm’n v. Stefanchik, 559 F.3d 924, 927-28 (9th
Cir. 2009) (quoting Horphag Rsch. Ltd. v. Garcia, 475 F.3d
1029, 1035 (9th Cir. 2007)).
                      LEGAL STANDARD
    Koi appeals the district court’s grant of summary
judgment in favor of Marron on Koi’s legal malpractice,
breach of fiduciary duty, and negligent supervision claims.
The elements of these claims are similar.
    The elements of a “legal malpractice action arising from
a civil proceeding” are “(1) the duty of the attorney to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or her
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of
that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the
breach and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the attorney’s negligence.” Coscia v.
McKenna & Cuneo, 25 P.3d 670, 672 (Cal. 2001). “[A]n
attorney’s duties to his client are conclusively established by
the rules of professional conduct . . . .” Mirabito v. Liccardo,
5 Cal. Rptr. 2d. 571, 573 (Cal. Ct. App. 1992); see also David
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           19


Welch Co. v. Erskine & Tulley, 250 Cal. Rptr. 339, 343 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1988) (“Violations of professional standards” are
breaches of “the standard of care” for purposes of a legal
malpractice claim (citation modified)).
     Likewise, “[t]he elements of a cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty;
(2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately
caused by the breach.” Stanley v. Richmond, 41 Cal. Rptr. 2d
768, 776 (Cal. Ct. App. 1995). Similar to the legal
malpractice claim, “[t]he scope of an attorney’s fiduciary
duty may be determined as a matter of law based on the
Rules of Professional Conduct [] together with statutes and
general principles relating to other fiduciary relationships.”
Id. (internal quotation marks and citation omitted)
    The elements of a negligent supervision claim are (1) the
employer hired the employee, (2) the employee was or
became unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which
they were hired, (3) the employer knew or should have
known that the employee’s unfitness or incompetence posed
a particular risk to others, (4) the employee’s unfitness or
incompetence harmed the plaintiff, and (5) the employer’s
negligent supervision was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s harm. Judicial Council of California Civil Jury
Instructions (2026), No. 426 (“Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, or Retention of Employee”); see Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc’y of N.Y., Inc., 201 Cal. Rptr.
3d 156, 177 (Cal. Ct. App. 2016).
                         ANALYSIS
    Koi raises two principal issues on appeal. First, Koi
argues that the district court violated Rule 56(f)(2) by
granting summary judgment on a ground not raised by the
parties, without adequate notice to Koi. Second, Koi argues
20           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


that the district court erred in determining that Koi failed to
establish a genuine dispute of material fact as to Koi’s legal
malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, and negligent
supervision claims. We address each in turn.
I. The District Court Did Not Violate Rule 56(f)(2)
    Koi first argues that the district court violated Rule
56(f)(2) by granting summary judgment in favor of Marron
“on [a] ground[] not raised by a party” without giving Koi
adequate notice. Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(f)(2) (“After giving notice
and a reasonable time to respond, the court may . . . grant the
motion on grounds not raised by a party . . . .”).4 Koi’s
primary contention is that the district court granted summary
judgment in favor of Marron on the ground that Koi could
not prove damages even though Marron only challenged the
causation element of Koi’s claims. This argument misreads
the district court’s amended summary judgment order. The
district court’s order explicitly stated that Marron was
entitled to summary judgment because “Koi failed to present
any evidence to establish the causation element” of its
claims. Koi’s argument that the district court granted

4
  Marron argues that Koi waived these arguments by failing to raise them
before the district court. That is incorrect. Although there is “no ‘bright
line rule’” for when an argument is waived on appeal, generally an issue
is not waived if it was “‘raised sufficiently for the trial court to rule on
it.’” Whittaker Corp. v. Execuair Corp., 953 F.2d 510, 515 (9th Cir. 1992)
(quoting In re E.R. Fegert, Inc., 887 F.2d 955, 957 (9th Cir. 1989)). Here,
in Koi’s response to Marron’s motion for clarification of the district
court’s first summary judgment order, Koi argued that the district court
violated Rule 56(f)(2). The district court thus had an opportunity to rule
on this issue in its amended summary judgment order. The fact that the
district court did not do so is irrelevant. See Consumer Fin. Prot. Bureau
v. Gordon, 819 F.3d 1179, 1191 n.5 (9th Cir. 2016) (holding that an
argument properly raised before the district court, but which “the district
court refused to resolve,” was not waived).
             KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC                      21


summary judgment on a ground not raised by Marron is
therefore without merit.5
    Koi contends in the alternative that the district court
violated Rule 56(f)(2) by relying “on a theory” regarding
Koi’s inability to establish causation that was not raised by
Marron. In Koi’s telling, Marron’s summary judgment
motion challenged causation solely on the theory that Koi
could not show that Marron caused Koi’s default in the SPI
Litigation. Instead of relying on that theory, Koi contends,
the district court found that Koi could not show that it would
have ultimately prevailed on its trademark defenses in the
SPI Litigation or obtained a better outcome than its
settlement with SPI.
     Koi’s contention that it lacked notice of the “theory”
relied upon by the district court is contradicted by the record.
Koi’s own opposition to Marron’s motion for summary
judgment repeatedly attempted to refute this theory by
arguing that “whether Koi would have obtained a more
favorable judgment or settlement but for conduct that
occurred during Marron’s representation is a factual issue for
trial.” The district court ultimately disagreed with Koi and
concluded that Koi presented “no evidence” that it could
have “achieved a better final outcome than its settlement
with SPI.” Koi may disagree with that conclusion, but it
cannot dispute that it had adequate notice that this was one
theory on which summary judgment may be granted.6

5
 Because the district court granted summary judgment on causation, not
damages, we need not address Koi’s argument that the district court
improperly shifted the burden to Koi to establish damages.
6
  Koi’s reliance on the Tenth Circuit’s decision in Oldham v. O.K. Farms,
Inc. is thus misplaced. 871 F.3d 1147, 1148 (10th Cir. 2017). In Oldham
the Tenth Circuit held that the district court violated Rule 56(f)(2) where
22           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


   Accordingly, the district court’s order did not violate
Rule 56(f)(2).
II. The District Court Erred In Granting Marron
    Summary Judgment On Koi’s Three Claims
    We now turn to Koi’s contention that the district court
erred in finding that there was no genuine dispute of material
fact as to Koi’s claims for legal malpractice, breach of
fiduciary duty, and negligent supervision. On appeal, the
parties have two major disputes. First, the parties dispute
whether there was a triable issue of fact as to the breach of
duty element of Koi’s legal malpractice and breach of
fiduciary duty claims. Second, the parties dispute whether
there was a triable issue of fact as to whether Marron’s
conduct caused Koi any harm, a necessary element for all
three of Koi’s claims.
    For the reasons stated below, we agree with Koi that
there is a triable issue of fact as to both breach and causation.
We therefore reverse the district court’s award of summary
judgment in favor of Marron.
     A.    There is a genuine dispute as to whether Marron
           breached its duties, an essential element of Koi’s
           legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty
           claims
   The parties first dispute whether Koi established a
genuine issue of material fact as to the breach element of
Koi’s legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty claims.
The first two elements of these two claims are essentially the

“the district court’s ruling was based on a theory that was not raised by
Defendant or briefed by either party.” Id. (emphasis added). Unlike in
Oldham, here Koi itself briefed the theory on which the district court
decided Marron’s summary judgment motion.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           23


same: (1) duty and (2) breach. See Coscia, 25 P.3d at 672
(legal malpractice); Stanley, 41 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 776 (breach
of fiduciary duty). Moreover, for purposes of both claims,
the scope of the duty may be determined with reference to
the California Rules of Professional Conduct. See Stanley,
41 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 776 (“The scope of an attorney’s fiduciary
duty may be determined as a matter of law based on the
Rules of Professional Conduct [] together with statutes and
general     principles      relating   to   other    fiduciary
relationships . . . .” (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted)); Mirabito, 5 Cal. Rptr. 2d. at 573 (“[A]n attorney’s
duties to his client are conclusively established by the rules
of professional conduct” for legal malpractice claims.).
    Breaches of the Rules of Professional Conduct may be
used to prove that a lawyer “ha[s] breached his fiduciary
duties.” Mirabito, 5 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 573. Likewise,
“violations of professional standards” are breaches of “the
standard of care” satisfying the breach of duty element of a
legal malpractice claim. David Welch Co., 250 Cal. Rptr. at
343 (citation modified).
    In this case, the parties agree that Marron owed two
duties to Koi. First, the parties agree that Marron had a duty
to disclose to Koi material facts and significant
developments in the SPI Litigation. See Beal Bank, SSB v.
Hadden, LLP, 167 P.3d 666, 673 (Cal. 2007) (fiduciary duty
to disclose material facts); Cal. R. Pro. Conduct (1992) 3-
500 (California Rule of Professional Conduct requiring that
attorneys “keep [] client[s] reasonably informed about
significant developments relating to the employment or
representation”).
    Second, the parties agree that Marron had “an obligation
to adequately supervise [its] employees.” Layton v. State
24         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


Bar, 789 P.2d 1026, 1032 (Cal. 1990); see also Cal. R. Pro.
Conduct (1992) 3-110, Discussion (describing “the duty to
supervise the work of subordinate attorney” and collecting
California Supreme Court citations).
    “Breach of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury,” and
such is the case here. Lysick v. Walcom, 65 Cal. Rptr. 406,
416 (Cal. Ct. App. 1968) (legal malpractice case); see also
Stanley, 41 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 776 (“Whether an attorney has
breached a fiduciary duty to his or her client is generally a
question of fact.”). As discussed below, construing the facts
in the light most favorable to Koi and drawing all reasonable
inferences in Koi’s favor, we conclude that a reasonable jury
could find that Marron breached its duty to disclose and its
duty to supervise. See Merrick, 867 F.3d at 1145. Thus, a
triable issue of fact exists as to the breach element of both
Koi’s legal malpractice claim and breach of fiduciary duty
claim.
       1. Duty to disclose
     A reasonable jury could conclude that Marron breached
its duty to disclose in at least two ways: (1) by failing to
disclose that Mastroianni posed malpractice risks and (2) by
failing to disclose several significant developments in the
SPI Litigation. We discuss each in turn.
    First, based on the evidence in the record, a reasonable
jury could find that Marron knew that Mastroianni, Koi’s
lead counsel in the SPI Litigation, posed malpractice risks
and yet did not disclose this information to Koi. Paul’s
numerous emails to Mastroianni, Bill, and other Marron
employees, along with Mastroianni’s termination letter
discuss at length Mastroianni’s inability to meet deadlines or
adequately manage his cases. For example:
    KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC        25


•   On May 23, 2017, Paul emailed
    Mastroianni and reprimanded him for “a
    ball dropped” in another matter “that
    should not have happened.” Paul
    discussed Mastroianni’s tendency to
    “miss[] deadlines” and told Mastroianni
    that his “management of the cases has to
    improve.”
•   On May 24, Paul told the office
    administrator that Mastroianni “is pretty
    clearly doing things repeatedly that are
    malpractice risks” and that Mastroianni’s
    “disorganization is too pervasive and [a]
    malpractice and client relation risk.”
•   On May 26, Paul emailed the office
    administrator complaining about the
    “repeated     problems     on       cases
    [Mastroianni] was responsible for.”
•   In Mastroianni’s termination letter,
    Marron       described       Mastroianni’s
    “[f]ailure to either timely respond, or
    respond at all, to e-mail communications,
    telephone        calls,    and     written
    correspondence/documentation sent by
    clients, counsel and fellow Marron
    Lawyers’ staff members.”
•   Mastroianni’s termination letter further
    noted Mastroianni’s “consistent omission
    to plan ahead for filing and/or service of
    necessary documents, essentially waiting
    until the eleventh-hour, which in turn
26         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


           resulted in disruption, chaos for the
           paralegals and admin staff, harmed
           morale and overall effectiveness and
           increased rush attorney service charges
           which then had to be passed on to the
           client.”
       •   Mastroianni’s termination letter thus
           concluded as an “exceedingly important
           point” that it “was a near certainty that
           unless [Mastroianni was] let go,”
           Mastroianni would “expose[] [Marron] to
           malpractice liability.”

    A reasonable jury could conclude that Mastroianni’s
incompetence and malpractice risks were material
information that Marron needed to disclose to Koi for Koi to
“make an informed decision” about whether to continue
retaining Mastroianni as lead counsel in the SPI Litigation.
Knutson v. Foster, 236 Cal. Rptr. 3d 473, 487 (Cal. Ct. App.
2018) (describing attorney’s failure to disclose all
“information [the client] needed to make an informed
decision about” a settlement agreement as a breach of the
duty to disclose material facts). Yet Marron never disclosed
this information to Koi, and Paul even admitted that no one
at Marron “inform[ed] anyone at Koi that Mastroianni had
been terminated because he was a malpractice liability.”
    A reasonable jury could also find that Bill concealed
Mastroianni’s numerous documented performance issues
and malpractice risks from Koi. When Koi’s CEO Peterson
asked Bill why Mastroianni was terminated and whether Koi
had any reason to be concerned about Mastroianni, Bill
stated “that he was not in ‘the meeting’” and directed
Peterson “to speak with Mr. Mastroianni.” A reasonable jury
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            27


may well infer that Bill—one of only eight to ten attorneys
at Marron and the attorney tasked with working with
Mastroianni on his performance issues and taking over some
of Mastroianni’s cases—knew that Mastroianni was
terminated because he was incompetent and posed
malpractice risks. For example, in one email, Bill told Paul
that Mastroianni was wrong about a deadline and that
paralegal “Angie [wa]s correct.” In another email, Paul
noted that he had asked Bill to “get more assertive and
engaged on [Mastroianni’s case management] issues.” And
in an email discussing details of Mastroianni’s upcoming
termination, Paul told Bill that Bill would be “taking over
and fully in charge” of one of Mastroianni’s matters. Finally,
Paul told the office administrator that Mastroianni’s “stunts”
were “creating a very discouraging situation for Bill.” A
reasonable jury could thus conclude that Bill concealed
Mastroianni’s malpractice risks when, in response to
Peterson’s questions about Mastroianni, Bill told Peterson
that he “wasn’t in the meeting” and gave “no indication that
there was a reason to be concerned.”
    Second, a reasonable jury could conclude that Marron’s
failure to inform Koi of developments in the SPI Litigation,
including that Mastroianni missed multiple court deadlines
and exposed Koi to a potential case terminating default
judgment, constituted a breach of Marron’s duty to disclose.
Mastroianni initially failed to file a timely answer on Koi’s
behalf, leading the district court to issue an order to show
cause that invited SPI to move for default judgment.
Mastroianni then failed to participate at all in the joint Rule
26(f) process, prompting SPI to file a Notice informing the
court that Mastroianni had “ignored all communications”
and a unilateral Rule 26(f) report arguing that default
judgment was appropriate. Then, just days before the May
28         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


15, 2017 scheduling conference, Mastroianni filed an ex
parte application to continue the conference in which
Mastroianni described several concerning facts with respect
to his handling of the SPI Litigation. Again, no one at
Marron ever disclosed any of this information to Koi. In fact,
at his deposition, Paul admitted that no one at Marron
“inform[ed] anyone at Koi that Mastroianni had made
mistakes in the handling of the SPI Litigation.”
    A reasonable jury could find that Marron, Koi’s counsel
of record, breached its duty to disclose by failing to inform
Koi of these facts. Although a lawyer is not obligated to
communicate “insignificant or irrelevant information” to
their client, Mastroianni’s mistakes concerned the very
subject of Marron’s representation of Koi: Koi’s defense in
the SPI Litigation. Cal. R. Pro. Conduct (1992) 3-500,
Discussion. Thus, drawing all inferences in Koi’s favor, a
reasonable jury could conclude that Marron should have
informed Koi of Mastroianni’s failure to comply with
multiple court deadlines, as those failures called into doubt
the effectiveness of Mastroianni’s continued representation
of Koi and exposed Koi to a potential case-dispositive
motion for default and default judgment in the SPI
Litigation.
    In addition to the factual record, Koi submitted the
opinion of a legal malpractice expert that: (1) failure to
inform a client that its lead counsel “was generally
mishandling other client matters and was considered to be a
malpractice liability” is a breach of the duty to disclose; and
(2) failure to disclose “conduct that violates court orders and
rules and that could subject the client to sanctions or have
other adverse consequences, such as a default judgment” is
a breach of the duty to disclose. Although Marron’s expert
disputed these conclusions, the district court never excluded
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            29


them, and a reasonable jury could agree with them. This
alone precludes summary judgment in Marron’s favor on the
breach element of Koi’s legal malpractice and breach of
fiduciary duty claims. See Primiano v. Cook, 598 F.3d 558,
567 (9th Cir. 2010) (finding admission of an expert’s
“opinion precluded summary judgment, because if the jury
accepted it,” the jury could return a verdict for the
nonmoving party).
    Because a reasonable jury could conclude that Marron
breached its duty to disclose, a genuine dispute of material
fact exists as to the breach element of Koi’s legal malpractice
and breach of fiduciary duty claims.
       2. Duty to supervise
    A reasonable jury could also find that Marron breached
its duty to supervise for two reasons. First, despite
recognizing the need to supervise Mastroianni in other cases,
there is no evidence in the record that Marron ever
supervised Mastroianni’s handling of the SPI Litigation. A
reasonable jury could infer that Marron knew as early as
April 2017—while the SPI Litigation was in its early
stages—that Mastroianni required supervision. For example,
in an email dated May 26, 2017, Paul told the office
administrator that Mastroianni’s “lapses have been chewing
up as much as 2 to 3 hours in a day, routinely, and for approx.
6 weeks. . . . He is a major drain on my time as I have to
overly supervise him on cases where I am involved and
repeated problems on cases he was responsible for.” Paul
also testified at his deposition that Mastroianni was fired
because “over the last few weeks [Mastroianni] was
employed at the firm [before Mastroianni’s termination on
May 31], it became increasingly necessary to monitor his
30         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


work, and he was not performing according to our
standards.”
    During this same time period, on May 8, 2017, SPI filed
a Notice of Defendant’s Refusal to Participate in a Rule 26(f)
Conference, which showed that Mastroianni had “ignored all
communications attempting to schedule a conference” by
ignoring four emails over ten days from SPI’s counsel. Also
on May 8, SPI filed a unilateral Rule 26(f) report, which
argued that entry of default and default judgment against Koi
was appropriate. Then, on May 12, 2017, Mastroianni filed
an ex parte application to continue the May 15 scheduling
conference. In the application, Mastroianni explained that he
had failed to cooperate with SPI’s counsel due to “frequent
absences from the office due to treatment for an on-going
medical condition.” The application also stated that
Mastroianni had “assigned the day-to-day handling of this
matter to [an] associate” but when “that associate
subsequently left [Marron,] the matter was not reassigned.”
Finally, Mastroianni’s application asserted that “events in
this action . . . were inadvertently not calendared by
[Marron’s] calendaring system” and that Mastroianni was
not receiving ECF notifications.
    Mastroianni’s lapses were consistent enough that on May
24, 2017, Paul appointed a paralegal “minder” for
Mastroianni, an attorney, in at least one case to ensure
Mastroianni did the required work and met deadlines.
However, even these efforts to supervise Mastroianni
sometimes proved insufficient, as in one case, Mastroianni
“failed to correct” a mistake despite “Paul Marron’s repeated
interventions.”
   Mastroianni’s repeated absences and failure to meet
deadlines in April and May 2017 were, according to Paul,
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           31


causing “frustration [among] fellow employees.” As detailed
in Mastroianni’s termination letter, Mastroianni failed “to
either timely respond, or respond at all” to “fellow Marron
Lawyers’ staff members” and waited “until the eleventh-
hour” to file necessary documents. These failures “resulted
in an absolutely unacceptable situation where hours and
hours of [Mastroianni’s] peers’ time had to address both
[Mastroianni’s] shortcomings and lapses in work,” causing
“chaos for the paralegal and admin staff, harm[ing] morale”
and “increase[ing] rush attorney service charges which then
had to be passed onto the client.” Mastroianni’s failures
“undermin[ed] morale,” created “distrust,” and caused
Mastroianni’s “peers [to] doubt [Mastroianni’s] word.”
Thus, the termination letter concluded, “if [Mastroianni’s]
peers and administration did not jump in and take action,
[Mastroianni] would have exposed the Firm to malpractice
liability.”
     And yet, in a firm with only eight to ten attorneys, Paul
did not supervise or appoint anyone else at Marron to
supervise Mastroianni’s work in the SPI Litigation. Paul also
did not appoint a paralegal minder for Mastroianni to ensure
that Mastroianni met deadlines in the SPI Litigation. In fact,
according to Mastroianni’s ex parte application, when the
associate “assigned the day-to-day handling of” the SPI
Litigation left the firm, Marron did not assign a new
associate to the SPI Litigation. At his deposition, Paul
explained that the SPI Litigation “was [Mastroianni’s] case,”
and that Mastroianni “was determining what to do on it.”
Paul further testified that because he viewed Koi
as “[Mastroianni’s] client,” he “didn’t supervise
[Mastroianni] . . . or control the handling of the [SPI]
litigation.” In light of the evidence demonstrating that Paul
and other Marron employees were aware of the need to
32         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


thoroughly supervise Mastroianni, a reasonable jury could
conclude that the decision to let Mastroianni handle the SPI
Litigation without any supervision constituted a breach of
Marron’s duty “to adequately supervise [its] employees.”
Layton, 789 P.2d at 1032.
    Second, Marron failed to ensure that Mastroianni
complied with Marron’s internal policy requiring
Mastroianni to add a paralegal to his CM/ECF account. In
fact, Mastroianni’s May 12, 2017 ex parte application stated
that Mastroianni himself was not receiving ECF
notifications. At least one paralegal at Marron, Mini Leano,
knew that Mastroianni was not complying with Marron’s
policy. Marron asserts that this was “an insignificant
occurrence given that all dates . . . were duly calendared by
Marron,” but a reasonable jury could disagree. Marron’s
claim that the dates were duly calendared is disputed, as
Mastroianni’s ex parte application stated that “events in [the
SPI Litigation] . . . were inadvertently not calendared by our
firm calendaring system.” Even if the relevant deadlines
were calendared by the firm, ECF notifications were
necessary so that Marron’s other lawyers and staff would
have been notified of court filings, such as the district court’s
order to show cause, SPI’s Notice of Defendant’s Refusal to
Participate in a Rule 26(f) Conference, and Mastroianni’s ex
parte application to continue the Rule 26(f) hearing—all of
which would have signaled that Mastroianni was
mishandling the SPI Litigation. Moreover, Paul stated that if
paralegal Mini Leano had brought Mastroianni’s policy
violation to Paul’s attention earlier, he would have
terminated or at least investigated Mastroianni. Thus, a
reasonable jury could find Mastroianni’s failure to comply
with Marron’s ECF policy significant, reject Paul’s attempt
to deflect blame onto a paralegal, and find that Paul’s failure
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            33


to “supervise[] office staff” led to an important “lapse[] in
office procedure,” breaching Paul and Marron’s duty to
supervise. See Trousil v. State Bar, 695 P.2d 1066, 1068 (Cal.
1985) (noting that “lapses in office procedure” due to
attorney’s failure to “supervise[] office staff” may constitute
a violation of attorneys’ duty to supervise).
    In addition to the record evidence, a reasonable jury
could accept the opinions of Koi’s legal malpractice expert
that (1) allowing an associate attorney to handle a lawsuit
without any supervision breaches the duty to supervise, and
(2) failure to ensure that ECF filings are received and
processed by the law firm’s staff breaches the duty to
supervise. The malpractice expert’s opinions alone suffice to
create a triable issue of fact. See Primiano, 598 F.3d at 567.
    Accordingly, Koi demonstrated that there was, at a
minimum, a genuine dispute of material fact as to whether
Marron breached its duty to disclose and duty to supervise,
an essential element of Koi’s legal malpractice and breach of
fiduciary duty claims.
   B.    There is a genuine dispute as to whether
         Marron’s conduct caused injury to Koi
    We turn next to whether Koi created a triable issue of fact
as to the causation element of Koi’s legal malpractice, breach
of fiduciary duty, and negligent supervision claims. See
Coscia, 25 P.3d at 672; Stanley, 41 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 776;
Lopez, 201 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 591. The district court granted
summary judgment in Marron’s favor on all three of Koi’s
claims because the district court concluded that Koi could
not prove causation. Before considering whether Koi
provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate a dispute of
material fact on causation, we first determine the proper test
for causation on each of Koi’s claims.
34         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


    The parties agree that substantial factor causation applies
to Koi’s legal malpractice and negligent supervision claims.
See Viner v. Sweet, 70 P.3d 1046, 1051-52 (Cal. 2003)
(substantial factor causation applies to legal malpractice
claims); Liberty Surplus Ins. Corp. v. Ledesma & Meyer
Constr. Co., Inc., 418 P.3d 400, 405 n.5 (Cal. 2018)
(substantial factor causation applies to negligent supervision
claims). The parties disagree as to whether substantial factor
or but for causation applies to Koi’s breach of fiduciary duty
claim. That dispute is ultimately immaterial, however,
because on the facts of this case substantial factor causation
requires us to apply the but for causation test to all of Koi’s
claims.
    California’s substantial factor test “adopts the ‘but for’
test of causation” with an exception for “concurrent
independent causes, which are multiple forces operating at
the same time and independently, each of which would have
been sufficient by itself to bring about the harm.” Viner, 70
P.3d at 1051; see also Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc., 941
P.2d 1203, 1214 (Cal. 1997) (noting that the substantial
factor test “reach[es] beyond [the but for test] to
satisfactorily address other situations, such as those
involving independent or concurrent causes in fact”).
    Here, the exception for concurrent independent causes
does not apply because Koi’s theory of causation relies on
two dependent causes: Mastroianni’s misconduct and
Marron’s misconduct. Koi’s theory of causation is that:
(1) Marron’s conduct harmed Koi because it allowed
Mastroianni’s incompetence to go un-checked, and
(2) Mastroianni’s incompetent conduct harmed Koi because
Marron violated its duties to disclose material facts to Koi
and supervise Mastroianni. Thus, this case is like Viner, in
which the California Supreme Court held that the concurrent
            KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC                35


independent causes exception does not apply when multiple
“forces operated in combination” enabling each other. 70
P.3d at 1051.
    Because the substantial factor causation test requires us
to apply the but for causation test in this case, we apply the
but for causation test to all of Koi’s claims. In the context of
this case, Koi must show that Koi “would have obtained a
more favorable judgment or settlement in the” SPI Litigation
but for Marron’s conduct. Id. at 1052. Koi must “only
‘introduce evidence which affords a reasonable basis for the
conclusion that it is more likely than not that the conduct of
[Marron] was a cause in fact of the result.’” Id. at 1053
(quoting Ortega v. Kmart Corp., 36 P.3d 11, 15 (Cal. 2001)).
Even “a very minor force that does cause harm” suffices.
Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co., Inc., 980 P.2d 398, 404 (Cal.
1999); see also id. at 403 (“The contribution of the
individual cause [must] be more than negligible or
theoretical.” (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted)). Moreover, “[t]he issue of causation may be
decided as a question of law only if, under undisputed facts,
there is no room for a reasonable difference of opinion.”
Kurinji v. Hanna & Morton, 64 Cal. Rptr. 2d 324, 331 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1997). Here, the record leaves ample room for
reasonable differences of opinion.
    A reasonable jury could find that it is “more likely than
not” that competent counsel would have reduced Koi’s
damages in the SPI Litigation. See Viner, 70 P.3d at 1053. In
the SPI Litigation, the district court granted SPI default
judgment and awarded trebled damages—the maximum
amount allowed—totaling $5,266,380.68.7 In the district

7
 Trebling profits is the maximum damages enhancement allowed by the
Lanham Act. 15 U.S.C. § 1117(a) (“In assessing damages the court may
36          KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


court’s own words, it trebled damages because of
Mastroianni’s “refusal to participate in this litigation or to
comply with discovery deadlines or lawful court orders.”
The district court:

        •    described Mastroianni            as    “grossly
             negligent (or worse);”
        •    explained that the SPI Litigation was
             “tainted by [Mastroianni’s] conduct from
             day one;” and
        •    stated that Koi’s default was “caused by
             Mastroianni’s (and therefore [Koi’s]) two
             years of obstreperous behavior.”

In explaining why it trebled damages, the district court cited
Mastroianni’s misconduct while he was employed by
Marron. Specifically, the district court cited Mastroianni’s
failure to participate in the required Rule 26(f) meet and
confer and the fact that SPI had to unilaterally file a Rule
26(f) report—both of which occurred in April and May
2017, during the time that Paul Marron was spending two to
three hours a day supervising Mastroianni, a Marron
employee. A reasonable jury could thus disagree with
Marron that “all of the significant developments that led
to . . . Koi[’s injury] happened after Mastroianni left”
Marron. Rather, a reasonable jury could conclude that
competent counsel would have avoided a trebled damages
award by simply complying with counsel’s discovery
obligations, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and the

enter judgment, according to the circumstances of the case, for any sum
above the amount found as actual damages, not exceeding three times
such amount.”).
             KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC                    37


district court’s orders. This alone suffices to demonstrate a
genuine dispute of fact as to whether competent counsel
“would have obtained a more favorable judgment” for Koi
in the SPI Litigation. Viner, 70 P.3d at 1052.
    A reasonable jury could find that competent counsel
would have reduced Koi’s damages for a second,
independent reason: Mastroianni’s failure to introduce any
evidence of Koi’s costs. Under the Lanham Act, Koi could
have reduced the profits used for calculating damages by
presenting evidence of Koi’s costs. See 15 U.S.C. § 1117(a).
But because Mastroianni did not present any evidence of
Koi’s costs, the district court calculated the final damages
amount solely based on Koi’s alleged revenue. A reasonable
jury could infer that competent counsel would have
introduced some evidence of Koi’s costs in producing,
advertising, and selling the infringing products, which are
medical uniforms manufactured and sold by Koi.8
    Finally, a reasonable jury could conclude that but for
Marron’s conduct, Koi would have replaced Mastroianni
with competent counsel. Koi’s CEO Peterson submitted a
declaration in support of Koi’s opposition to Marron’s
motion for summary judgment. See Stefanchik, 559 F.3d at
927-28 (the nonmoving party who bears the ultimate burden
of proof on an issue may oppose summary judgment by
relying on affidavits). Peterson declared that, if Marron had
informed Koi of Mastroianni’s errors in the SPI Litigation
and that Marron terminated Mastroianni because

8
 Before the district court, Koi submitted a declaration by Koi’s attorney
attesting, based on personal knowledge, that during discovery Koi
produced to Marron a 9,000 page spreadsheet showing Koi’s costs.
Marron has never disputed that Koi produced this spreadsheet or that the
spreadsheet could be presented in an admissible form at trial.
38         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


Mastroianni’s litigation failures posed malpractice risks, Koi
would not have agreed to substitute Marron out as counsel
and would have quickly replaced Mastroianni with
competent counsel. Peterson’s declaration is corroborated by
the fact that Koi in fact substituted Mastroianni out as
counsel as soon as Koi discovered Mastroianni’s litigation
failures. Indeed, the dissent agrees that based on these facts
a reasonable jury could infer that Koi would have replaced
Mastroianni.
    Therefore, there is “room for a reasonable difference of
opinion,” Kurinji, 64 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 331, as to whether
Marron’s actions were, at least, “a very minor force
that . . . cause[d] harm” to Koi, Bockrath, 980 P.2d at 404. A
reasonable jury could conclude that it is “more likely than
not” that Koi “would have obtained a more favorable
judgment” with competent counsel, and that Koi would have
obtained competent counsel but for Marron’s actions. Viner,
70 P.3d at 1052-53. Accordingly, the district court erred in
granting summary judgment on Koi’s legal malpractice,
breach of fiduciary duty, and negligent supervision claims in
favor of Marron on the ground that Koi could not establish
causation.
    The dissent’s contrary analysis errs in three ways: it
misstates and misapplies California law, inappropriately
draws inferences in favor of Marron, and reaches internally
inconsistent conclusions. First, the dissent repeats the district
court’s mistake of requiring Koi to prove the merits of the
underlying case. That requirement relies on outdated
California Court of Appeal decisions that are inconsistent
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           39


with the California Supreme Court’s decision in Viner,
which explained that:

       The requirement that the plaintiff prove
       causation should not be confused with the
       method or means of doing so. Phrases such
       as ‘trial within a trial,’ ‘case within a case,’
       ‘no deal’ scenario, and ‘better deal’
       scenario describe methods of proving
       causation, not the causation requirement
       itself or the test for determining whether
       causation has been established.

Id. at 1051 n.4 (emphasis added). In other words, proving
that but for the attorney’s conduct the plaintiff would have
succeeded on the merits of the underlying case is merely one
“method[]” of proving causation, but is “not the causation
requirement itself or the test for determining whether
causation has been established.” Id. Nevertheless, the dissent
would require Koi to prove causation through a trial within
a trial on the merits of the underlying case. For example, the
dissent concludes that:

       •    “Koi’s lack of a meritorious trademark
           defense” is an independent cause of Koi’s
           injury for which Marron cannot be held
           responsible, Dissent at 60;
       •   Koi cannot “proceed on claims involving
           legal malpractice without introducing any
           admissible evidence concerning the
40          KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


             merits of the underlying trademark
             dispute,” Dissent at 58; and
        •    there is no genuine dispute of material
             fact as to causation because the factfinder
             must “speculate as to whether Koi’s
             defenses were strong enough” to reduce
             Koi’s damages, Dissent at 58.

The dissent thus demands from Koi precisely the type of
proof that the California Supreme Court held is not
required.9
    The dissent also fundamentally misstates and misapplies
the but for causation requirement. Under California law, all
that Koi is required to show to prove but for causation is that
Marron’s actions were “a cause in fact of” Koi’s injury,
Viner, 70 P.3d 1053 (emphasis added), and even “a very
minor force that does cause harm” suffices, Bockrath, 980
P.2d at 404. To meet this burden at the summary judgment
stage, Koi had to show only that there is “room for a
reasonable difference of opinion” whether Marron’s actions
were such a very minor force that caused Koi harm. Kurinji,
64 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 331. The dissent effectively admits that
Koi has met this burden by saying:

        I acknowledge that these statements [by the
        district court explaining why it awarded
        treble damages] suggest that Mastroianni’s

9
  By requiring proof that Koi would have succeeded on the merits of the
underlying claim, the dissent also mischaracterizes Koi’s claim and
theory of injury. Koi does not contend that competent counsel would
necessarily have defeated SPI’s trademark claims. As discussed, a
reasonable jury may find that Marron’s misconduct injured Koi even
without evidence that Koi would have defeated SPI’s trademark claims.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            41


       actions while employed by Marron were a
       factor in the district court’s decision to treble
       damages. In that limited sense, Mastroianni’s
       misconduct could be described as a cause of
       Koi’s injury because it contributed to the
       ultimate result.

Dissent at 56 (emphasis added).
    The dissent nevertheless concludes that Mastroianni’s
misconduct was not a but for cause of Koi’s injury because
“treble damages were a ‘possible outcome’ under the
Lanham Act.” Dissent at 56 (emphasis added). The dissent
in effect requires Koi to prove that Marron’s actions were the
only cause of Koi’s injury and requires Koi to disprove every
other hypothetical possible cause of Koi’s injury. This is
contrary to California law and Koi’s burden on summary
judgment.
    Second, the dissent’s causation analysis repeatedly and
improperly draws inferences in favor of Marron, the
summary judgment movant. On summary judgment, we are
required to “constru[e] the facts in the light most favorable
to the nonmoving party and draw[] all reasonable inferences
in that party’s favor.” Merrick, 867 F.3d at 1145. The dissent
repeatedly fails to do so. For example, the dissent speculates
that “the district court [] could have awarded treble damages
even if Mastroianni had never mishandled the case.” Dissent
at 57 (emphasis added). The dissent also speculates that “if
Koi really had a meritorious trademark defense, the
likelihood that the district court would have entered a default
judgment awarding treble damages . . . is extremely low.”
Dissent at 63. The dissent ignores the district court’s own
explanation for its damages award, which the district court
stated was the result of Mastroianni’s “two years of
42           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


obstreperous behavior” and his “conduct from day one.”
Drawing all reasonable inference in favor of Koi, a
reasonable jury could find that the district court would not
have trebled damages but for such gross misconduct.10
    Similarly, the dissent’s assertion that all of Koi’s injury
resulted from Mastroianni’s misconduct after he left Marron
draws inferences in Marron’s favor. Dissent at 62.
Mastroianni’s misconduct after leaving Marron is certainly
relevant to the causation analysis but does not entitle Marron
to judgment as a matter of law. As discussed, construing the
record in Koi’s favor, as we must, a reasonable jury could
find that Marron’s misconduct while Mastroianni was
employed at Marron injured Koi.
    Third, the dissent’s causation analysis is internally
inconsistent. The dissent agrees that there is a genuine
dispute of material fact on causation as to Koi’s breach of
fiduciary duty claim because “Mastroianni’s post-Marron
misconduct can be attributed to Marron.” Dissent at 65. At
the same time, however, the dissent asserts that “Marron
cannot be held responsible for . . . Mastroianni’s post-

10
  Although the dissent agrees that we must infer that Koi would have
replaced Mastroianni, the dissent extensively discusses two pieces of
evidence that the dissent argues demonstrate otherwise. In doing so, the
dissent improperly draws inferences in favor of Marron and speculates
that Koi did not believe its own attorney. See Dissent at 66-67. These
pieces of evidence merely underscore that there are genuine disputes of
fact. Moreover, the dissent ignores crucial evidence supporting Koi’s
argument that Koi would have replaced Mastroianni but for Marron’s
actions. The dissent states that the only evidence supporting Koi’s
argument are the Peterson declaration and Koi’s interrogatory responses.
Dissent at 68. As discussed, however, the fact that Koi in fact replaced
Mastroianni when Koi discovered his misconduct is strong evidence
from which a reasonable jury could infer that Koi would have replaced
Mastroianni but for Marron’s actions. See supra at 38.
             KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC                      43


termination conduct” and thus concludes that there is no
genuine dispute of material fact on Koi’s legal malpractice
and negligent supervision claims. Dissent at 62. The dissent
does not reconcile these contradictory conclusions.
Moreover, the breach of fiduciary duty and legal malpractice
claims are based on the very same alleged breach of
Marron’s duties to disclose and supervise, and the dissent
agrees that the same causation standard applies to all three
claims.11 See Dissent at 50. The dissent does not explain why

11
   On appeal, Koi explicitly incorporated its breach of fiduciary duty
arguments into Koi’s legal malpractice arguments and specifically stated
that Marron is liable for legal malpractice because “Marron breached its
duties to adequately supervise Mastroianni and disclose significant
developments in Marron’s representation of Koi.” Thus, the same two
duties underlie Koi’s breach of fiduciary duty claim and legal
malpractice claim. See supra at 23-24. Contrary to the dissent’s
contention, Koi mentioned this same argument in the district court in
Koi’s opposition to Marron’s motion for summary judgment: “Marron
owed professional and fiduciary duties to Koi, including the duty to
disclose material facts such as Mastroianni’s malpractice,” and
extensively cited the duties as set forth in the California Rules of
Professional Conduct. Indeed, Marron understood Koi’s argument, and
Marron conceded in its motion for summary judgment reply brief that
“California cases and ethics opinions recognize a duty to disclose to a
client facts giving rise to a potential legal malpractice claim.” In any
event, even if Koi’s arguments on the legal malpractice claim are
different on appeal than before the district court, that would not preclude
us from reviewing those arguments because “claims, not arguments[,]
are preserved on appeal.” United States v. Wahid, 614 F.3d 1009, 1016
(9th Cir. 2010); see also Yee v. City of Escondido, 503 U.S. 519, 534
(1992) (once a “claim is properly presented, a party can make any
argument in support of that claim; parties are not limited to the precise
arguments they made below”). The dissent relies on an out of circuit case
to read Yee overly narrowly, but the U.S. Supreme Court held in Yee that
the plaintiff preserved on appeal a Fifth Amendment regulatory taking
argument because the plaintiff raised a Fifth Amendment physical taking
argument in the trial and appellate courts even though the two arguments
44           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


Mastroianni’s post-termination conduct can be attributed to
Marron for Koi’s breach of fiduciary duty claim but not for
Koi’s legal malpractice and negligent supervision claims.
Thus, there is a genuine dispute of material fact as to the
causation element on all three of Koi’s claims.
     C.    Marron’s counterarguments are unavailing
    Marron asserts counterarguments challenging Koi’s
ability to demonstrate a breach of the duty to disclose or that
Marron’s conduct caused Koi injury, and Koi’s claim for
negligent supervision. None is persuasive.
          1. Marron’s argument that Koi cannot
             demonstrate a breach of the duty to disclose
             fails
    Marron argues it is undisputed that Marron did not
breach its duty to disclose because Marron’s expert opined
that “Marron’s duty to keep Koi reasonably informed . . . did
not require Marron to communicate events in the SPI
Litigation that resulted in no material adverse consequences
to Koi.” Instead, Marron argues that only Mastroianni’s
conduct after he was fired by Marron caused material
adverse consequences to Koi.
   Marron’s argument fails for three reasons. First, Koi’s
expert disagreed with the conclusion of Marron’s expert, and
we do not weigh conflicting expert opinions at summary
judgment. See Elosu v. Middlefork Ranch Inc., 26 F.4th
1017, 1020 (9th Cir. 2022) (district court erred by
“weigh[ing] the evidence on record,” including expert
opinions, because those are “factfinding steps” reserved for

relied on entirely different doctrine and case law. What mattered,
according to the Supreme Court, was that both are arguments in support
of a Fifth Amendment takings claim.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            45


the jury). Second, Marron’s argument and Marron’s expert
opinion also erroneously assume that there is no triable issue
as to whether Marron’s conduct caused injury to Koi. That is
a disputed fact, as explained above, because the award of
default judgment against Koi was based at least in part on
conduct that occurred while Koi was still represented by
Marron. Finally, Marron fails to acknowledge that a
reasonable jury could infer that Marron’s failure to warn Koi
about Mastroianni’s malpractice risks and serious mistakes
in the SPI Litigation is precisely why Mastroianni was still
counsel of record in the SPI Litigation after being terminated
by Marron.
       2. Marron’s challenges to Koi’s ability to
          demonstrate causation fail
    Marron raises two counterarguments on causation. First,
Marron argues that Koi itself is to blame for Koi’s injuries.
Second, Marron attempts to break the chain of causation by
arguing that Peterson’s declaration is self-serving and cannot
be considered on summary judgment. We address each in
turn.
    First, Marron argues that Koi itself is to blame for Koi’s
injuries, and thus, Marron cannot be held liable for Koi’s
damages. In support of this argument, Marron relies on
Magistrate Judge Standish’s observation that Koi “knew or
should have known long ago that its case was not being
properly litigated” but “did not care to find out” and instead
“act[ed] like the proverbial ostrich, putting its head in the
sand for years.” “In other words, [Koi] was not blameless.”
    Although Marron’s argument that Koi bears at least some
of the blame for causing its own injuries is not without merit,
Marron misunderstands the legal significance of this fact.
Koi’s own blameworthiness affects only the amount of
46         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


damages for which Marron is responsible, but not whether
Marron can be found liable in the first place. Under
California’s “principles of comparative [fault] . . . a party is
responsible for his or her share of negligence and the harm
caused thereby.” Mitchell v. Gonzales, 819 P.2d 872, 920-21
(Cal. 1991). The relative substantiality of Marron’s and
Koi’s contributions to Koi’s damages will determine
Marron’s and Koi’s “part of the responsibility, if any, for the
claimed damages,” but does not affect whether Marron is
liable in the first place. Yale v. Browne, 215 Cal. Rptr. 3d 266,
273 (Cal. Ct. App. 2017) (emphasis added). Marron is liable
to Koi so long as Marron caused more than a “negligible or
theoretical” amount of harm, Bockrath, 980 P.2d at 403
(citation omitted), even if that was only “an insubstantial
contribution” to Koi’s total damages, Mitchell, 819 P.2d at
920 (citation omitted). As explained above, a reasonable jury
could conclude Marron caused more than a negligible
amount of harm to Koi, and thus a reasonable jury could find
Marron liable to Koi. What part of Koi’s damages Marron is
responsible for is a separate question that is not at issue in
this appeal.
    Second, Marron attempts to break the chain of causation
by arguing that Peterson’s declaration is self-serving and
thus cannot create a genuine dispute of fact. We have held,
however, that generally self-serving testimony can create a
genuine dispute of material fact. See In re Kaypro, 218 F.3d
1070, 1075 (9th Cir. 2000) (“[T]he ‘self-serving’ nature of
the testimony [does] not disqualify it under Fed. R. Civ. P.
56(e) . . . .”).
    It is true, as we explained in Villiarimo v. Aloha Island
Air, 281 F.3d 1054 (9th Cir. 2002), and Federal Trade
Commission v. Publishing Clearing House, 104 F.3d 1168
(9th Cir. 1997), that self-serving testimony that suffers from
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           47


other deficiencies cannot create a genuine dispute of material
fact. But this case is not like Villiarimo or Publishing
Clearing House. In Villiarimo, we discounted a factual
assertion in plaintiff’s self-serving affidavit because it was
“uncorroborated” and plaintiff “provide[d] no indication
how she knows this to be true.” 281 F.3d at 1059 n.5, 1061.
Meanwhile, in Publishing Clearing House, the self-serving
testimony was “conclusory . . . lacking detailed facts and any
supporting evidence.” 104 F.3d at 1171. Here, by contrast,
Peterson had personal knowledge of the statements made in
her declaration as Koi’s CEO, and those statements were
supported and corroborated by other evidence, including the
fact that Koi fired Mastroianni when Koi discovered
Mastroianni’s gross misconduct. Thus, Peterson’s
declaration does not suffer from the same concerns identified
in Villiarimo or Publishing Clearing House and is a proper
basis on which Koi may rely to oppose summary judgment.
See Stefanchik, 559 F.3d at 927-28.
       3. Marron’s challenges         to   Koi’s   negligent
          supervision claim fail
    In addition, Marron raises two challenges to Koi’s
negligent supervision claim. Marron first argues that claim
fails because “there can be no liability for negligent
supervision in the absence of knowledge by the principal that
the agent or servant was a person who could not be trusted
to act properly without being supervised.” Juarez v. Boy
Scouts of Am., Inc., 97 Cal. Rptr. 2d 12, 25 (Cal. Ct. App.
2000) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted); see
also Z.V. v. County of Riverside, 189 Cal. Rptr. 3d 570, 581
(Cal. Ct. App. 2015) (same). According to Marron,
Mastroianni was an experienced litigator who did not require
supervision at all. Construing the facts and drawing all
inferences in Koi’s favor, however, Koi presented sufficient
48          KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


evidence for a reasonable jury to conclude that Marron knew
that Mastroianni “was a person who could not be trusted to
act properly without being supervised.” Juarez, 97 Cal. Rptr.
2d at 25. Marron’s own emails and termination letter
document that Mastroianni mismanaged cases, repeatedly
missed and ignored deadlines, and waited “until the
eleventh-hour” to file necessary documents. Paul described
Mastroianni as a “malpractice risk” due to the “repeated
problems on cases [Mastroianni] was responsible for” and
Paul himself spent two to three hours a day in April and May
2017 supervising Mastroianni’s work. Finally, Paul in fact
appointed a paralegal to serve as Mastroianni’s “minder” in
at least one case. A reasonable jury could thus infer that Paul
and Marron knew that Mastroianni required supervision and
had specific prior knowledge of Mastroianni’s “propensity
to do the bad act.” Z.V., 189 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 581.12
    Marron also argues that Koi’s negligent supervision
claim fails because the injury occurred despite Marron’s best
efforts. In support of this argument, Marron relies on
Thompson v. Sacramento City Unified School District, 132
Cal. Rptr. 2d 748 (Cal. Ct. App. 2003). In Thompson, the
California Court of Appeal held that “[w]hen an injury
occurs despite a defendant’s efforts to provide security or
supervision, it is relatively easy to claim that, ipso facto, the
security or supervision provided was ineffective. Without
more, such claims fail.” Id. at 762. Thompson is inapposite.
First, Koi alleges it was injured because of Marron’s
insufficient supervisory efforts, not that Koi was injured

12
   Marron’s argument that summary judgment is required because
“Marron demonstrated that at the time Marron hired Mastroianni, he
posed no particular risk of harm to Koi” thus misses the mark. Koi’s
claim is not that Marron was negligent in hiring Mastroianni, but that
Marron was negligent in supervising Mastroianni.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC          49


“despite” Marron’s supervisory efforts. Second, Thompson
was about schools’ supervisory duties towards their students,
not employers’ supervisory duties towards employees they
know are a liability risk.
    Accordingly, none of Marron’s counterarguments cause
us to depart from our conclusion that there are genuine
disputes of material facts that preclude summary judgment
in this case.
                       CONCLUSION
    There are genuine disputes of material facts as to
whether Marron breached its duties to Koi and whether
Marron’s conduct caused Koi harm. Thus, the district court
erred in granting summary judgment in favor of Marron on
Koi’s legal malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, and
negligent supervision claims. Accordingly, we reverse the
district court’s grant of summary judgment in Marron’s favor
and remand for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
   REVERSED and REMANDED.
50         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


RONALD LEE GILMAN, Circuit Judge, concurring in part
and dissenting in part.
    I respectfully disagree with the majority’s analysis
regarding the causation element of Koi’s three claims. In my
view, Koi has failed to present sufficient evidence of
causation to survive summary judgment on its legal-
malpractice and negligent-supervision claims, so I would
affirm the district court’s ruling on those claims. At the same
time, I believe that a genuine dispute of material fact exists
regarding the causation element of Koi’s breach-of-
fiduciary-duty claim, albeit for reasons different from those
identified by the majority. I accordingly concur in the
reversal of summary judgment on that claim.
A. The substantial-factor causation standard applies to
   all of Koi’s claims
    I agree with the majority that the substantial-factor
causation standard applies to each of Koi’s claims. As the
majority observes, the parties do not dispute that this
standard governs Koi’s legal-malpractice and negligent-
supervision claims. Maj. Op. 34. The parties diverge,
however, on the applicable causation standard for Koi’s
breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim. Koi contends that the
substantial-factor standard applies, whereas Marron argues
that the more stringent but-for standard governs.
    The majority concludes that this dispute is “ultimately
immaterial . . . because on the facts of this case substantial
factor causation requires us to apply the but for causation
test.” Id. In my view, however, the distinction is
consequential because I believe that Koi has raised a genuine
dispute of material fact only as to substantial-factor
causation, not but-for causation, regarding its breach-of-
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC             51


fiduciary-duty claim. I will therefore explain below why I
believe that the former standard applies.
    A “breach of fiduciary duty can be based upon either
negligence or fraud, depending on the circumstances.”
Tribeca Cos., LLC v. First Am. Title Ins. Co., 192 Cal. Rptr.
3d 354, 375 (Cal. Ct. App. 2015). For “claims of breach of
fiduciary duty arising from negligent conduct,” the plaintiff
must prove that it would not have suffered damages but for
the defendant’s breach. Knutson v. Foster, 236 Cal. Rptr. 3d
473, 484, 486 (Cal. Ct. App. 2018). On the other hand, the
more lenient “[s]ubstantial factor causation is the correct
causation standard for an intentional breach of fiduciary
duty”—that is, the plaintiff need only “establish ‘a
reasonable basis for the conclusion that it was more likely
than not that the conduct of the defendant was a substantial
factor in the result.’” Id. (quoting Stanley v. Richmond, 41
Cal. Rptr. 2d 768, 782 (Cal. Ct. App. 1995)). The relevant
question is thus whether Koi’s breach-of-fiduciary-duty
claim is based on negligence as opposed to intentional
misconduct by Marron.
    I believe that Koi’s claim is based on Marron’s
intentional misconduct. Koi’s complaint alleges numerous
intentional acts by Marron, including that Marron “kept Koi
in the dark as to the true status of the litigation,” “failed to
disclose material information to Koi relating to the SPI
Litigation,” “knew something was wrong but failed to timely
advise Koi of Mastroianni’s improper conduct,” and “failed
to disclose to Koi the numerous instances of malpractice
occasioned by Mastroianni’s conduct.” Moreover, Koi
submitted substantial summary-judgment evidence to
support those allegations, which Marron does not appear to
dispute.
52         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


    California courts have held that such acts are sufficient
to support an intentional breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim.
See, e.g., Knutson, 236 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 486–87 (sustaining
an intentional breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim where the
defendant engaged in various “intentional acts” by “failing
to disclose” material information to his client). Indeed, the
California Supreme Court has held that when a defendant
has “an affirmative obligation to make full disclosure, [] the
non-disclosure itself is a ‘fraud,’” even if “the defendant
makes no active misrepresentation.” Amen v. Merced Cnty.
Title Co., 375 P.2d 33, 36 (Cal. 1962).
    Marron nevertheless argues that “Koi’s fiduciary duty
claim against Marron is based on negligence” because of the
wording in Koi’s complaint. First, whereas Koi’s breach-of-
fiduciary-duty claim against Mastroianni is labeled
“Intentional Breach of Fiduciary Duty” (First Claim for
Relief), its separate breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim against
Marron is simply titled “Breach of Fiduciary Duty” (Third
Claim for Relief). This, according to Marron, suggests that
Koi specifically intended not to plead intentionality against
Marron. Second, whereas Koi’s claim against Mastroianni
alleges that “Mastroianni’s intentional breaches of fiduciary
duty were a substantial factor in causing harm to Koi,” its
claim against Marron omits any mention of substantial-
factor causation. Marron argues that this further indicates
that Koi did not intend for the causation standard for an
intentional breach to apply to Marron.
    Although the above language might indicate inartful
pleading on Koi’s part, it falls short of foreclosing an
intentional breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim against Marron.
Under the liberal federal pleading standard, “[p]leadings
must be construed so as to do justice,” and “no technical
form is required.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 8(d)(1), (e). “Specific
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC              53


legal theories need not be pleaded so long as sufficient
factual averments show that the claimant may be entitled to
some relief.” Fontana v. Haskin, 262 F.3d 871, 876–77 (9th
Cir. 2001).
    Here, although Koi did not use the word “intentional” to
describe its fiduciary-duty claim against Marron, Koi’s
complaint contains ample “factual averments” to support
intentionality. I therefore conclude that Koi adequately
pleaded a claim based on intentional breach, which, like its
claims based on legal malpractice and negligent supervision,
requires that Koi establish only substantial-factor causation.
B. Marron is entitled to summary judgment on Koi’s
   legal-malpractice and negligent-supervision claims,
   but not on Koi’s breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim
    In evaluating substantial-factor causation, the California
Supreme Court has “definitively adopted” the test from the
Restatement Second of Torts. S. Coast Framing, Inc. v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd., 349 P.3d 141, 146 (Cal. 2015).
That test has two steps. The first step “adopts the ‘but for’
test of causation.” Viner v. Sweet, 70 P.3d 1046, 1051 (Cal.
2003). At this step, causation exists if the plaintiff’s injuries
would not have occurred but for the defendant’s actions, but
it does not exist “if the harm would have been sustained even
if” the defendant’s misconduct had not occurred.
Restatement (Second) of Torts § 432 (1965).
    The second step “provides for an exception” to the but-
for standard. Viner, 70 P.3d at 1051. At this step, the
factfinder must determine whether “two forces are actively
operating, one because of the [defendant’s misconduct], the
other not because of any misconduct on his part, and each of
itself is sufficient to bring about” the claimed injury.
Restatement (Second) of Torts § 432. If that is true, then the
54         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


defendant’s misconduct “may be found to be a substantial
factor in bringing it about.” Id. Causation thus exists in
situations where there are “‘concurrent independent causes,’
‘combined force criteria,’ [or] ‘multiple sufficient causes.’”
Viner, 70 P.3d at 1051 (citations omitted); see also
Rutherford v. Owens-Ill., Inc., 941 P.2d 1203, 1214 (Cal.
1997) (explaining that although the “substantial factor
standard generally produces the same results as does the ‘but
for’ rule of causation,” it also “reach[es] beyond [the but-for
test] to satisfactorily address other situations, such as those
involving independent or concurrent causes in fact”).
       a. Koi has failed to raise a genuine dispute of
          material fact as to but-for causation for any of
          its claims
    In cases involving legal malpractice, the but-for standard
requires the plaintiff to “establish that but for the alleged
negligence of the defendant attorney, the plaintiff would
have obtained a more favorable judgment or settlement in
the action in which the malpractice allegedly occurred.”
Viner, 70 P.3d at 1052 (emphasis in original). “[T]he crucial
causation inquiry is what would have happened if the
defendant attorney had not been negligent.” Id. (emphasis
in original). “This is so because the very idea of causation
necessarily involves comparing historical events to a
hypothetical alternative.” Id. But-for causation is thus
generally proven through “a ‘trial-within-a-trial’ of the
underlying case, in which the malpractice jury must decide
what a reasonable jury or court would have done if the
underlying matter had been tried.” Namikas v. Miller, 171
Cal. Rptr. 3d 23, 29 (Cal. Ct. App. 2014).
   Accordingly, to establish but-for causation at the
summary-judgment stage, Koi had to submit sufficient
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC             55


evidence for a reasonable jury to find that, absent Marron’s
malpractice (i.e., had the SPI Litigation been handled by
competent counsel), Koi would not have suffered its claimed
injury (the $5,266,380.68 damages award, representing three
times its alleged profits from selling infringing products).
The majority concludes that Koi did so based on two factors:
(1) a purported 9,000-page spreadsheet reflecting Koi’s
production costs, which could have “reduced the profits used
for calculating damages,” and (2) statements by the district
court indicating that Mastroianni’s mishandling of the case
while employed by Marron contributed to its decision to
treble the damages. Maj. Op. 35–37. But neither of these
factors suffices to carry Koi’s summary-judgment burden.
    First, the majority errs in considering the purported
9,000-page spreadsheet because the spreadsheet was neither
submitted with Koi’s summary-judgment papers below nor
included in the appellate record. The spreadsheet was never
authenticated by a witness with personal knowledge of its
contents, see Fed. R. Evid. 901, and Koi’s unsupported
assertions about what it contains (including the declaration
from Koi’s attorney that the majority cites, Maj. Op. 37 n.8)
constitute inadmissible hearsay, see Fed. R. Evid. 802. See
also Beyene v. Coleman Sec. Servs., Inc., 854 F.2d 1179,
1181 (9th Cir. 1988) (“It is well settled that only admissible
evidence may be considered by the trial court in ruling on a
motion for summary judgment.”). The spreadsheet therefore
is not properly part of the summary-judgment record. See
Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c)(1) (“A party asserting that a fact cannot
be or is genuinely disputed must support the assertion
by . . . citing to particular parts of materials in the record.”
(emphasis added)). Accordingly, the record contains no
admissible evidence upon which a factfinder could conclude
that Koi incurred production costs.
56         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


    Second, the majority’s reliance on the district court’s
statements      concerning      Mastroianni’s      misconduct
misapprehends the proper inquiry regarding but-for
causation. I acknowledge that these statements suggest that
Mastroianni’s actions while employed by Marron were a
factor in the district court’s decision to treble damages. In
that limited sense, Mastroianni’s misconduct could be
described as a cause of Koi’s injury because it contributed to
the ultimate result. But the relevant standard at this step is
but-for causation, which requires more: Koi must show not
only that Mastroianni’s actions contributed to the treble-
damages award, but that they were necessary to produce it.
In other words, Koi “must establish that but for the alleged
negligence of [Mastroianni], [Koi] would have obtained a
more favorable judgment.” See Viner, 70 P.3d at 1052
(emphasis in original).
    Put differently, the question is whether Koi could legally
have still been subjected to treble damages even in the
“hypothetical alternative” reality in which Koi was
represented by competent counsel. See id. The answer is
“yes” because Koi admits that treble damages were a
“possible outcome” under the Lanham Act. See also 15
U.S.C. § 1117(a) (“In assessing damages[,] the court may
enter judgment, according to the circumstances of the case,
for any sum above the amount found as actual damages, not
exceeding three times such amount.”).
    Critically, the types of misconduct in which Mastroianni
engaged—failing to participate in discovery, to follow
procedural rules, and to comply with court orders—are not
the only “circumstances” that can justify enhanced damages.
Courts may instead treble damages whenever doing so is
“just,” see id., including for the purpose of “compensat[ing]
a mark holder,” see Skydive Ariz., Inc. v. Quattrocchi, 673
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            57


F.3d 1105, 1114 (9th Cir. 2012). The district court thus
could have awarded treble damages even if Mastroianni had
never mishandled the case; for example, if it concluded that
such an award was necessary to fully compensate SPI.
    Consequently, to establish but-for causation at the
summary-judgment stage, Koi was required to raise a
genuine dispute that, with competent counsel, the district
court would not have awarded treble damages against it. To
do so, Koi would have had to present at least some evidence
concerning SPI’s underlying trademark claims (e.g.,
evidence of Koi’s production costs, evidence that Koi lacked
intent, evidence concerning the effect on SPI’s sales, etc.) in
order to demonstrate that the “circumstances of the case”
would not have justified treble damages. Yet the summary-
judgment record is entirely devoid of any evidence
concerning the merits of the SPI Litigation. Indeed, Koi
itself acknowledges as much. There is thus no evidence
whatsoever upon which a factfinder could “decide what a
reasonable . . . court would have done” with respect to the
trebling of damages. See Namikas, 171 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 29.
    For this reason, the majority’s assertion that “a
reasonable jury could conclude that competent counsel
would have avoided a trebled damages award by simply
complying with counsel’s discovery obligations, the Rules
of Civil Procedure, and the district court’s orders” is
unconvincing. Maj. Op. 36–37. This assertion assumes that
if competent counsel had handled the case, then Koi would
have clearly avoided treble damages based on the merits of
the case. But under California law, that is a fact that Koi
must establish, not an assumption that this court can make
on summary judgment. See Viner, 70 P.3d at 1052;
Namikas, 171 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 29. And because Koi has the
burden of proof on this issue, the absence of any admissible
58         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


evidence supporting that fact obviates the inference that the
district court awarded treble damages solely because of
Mastroianni’s misconduct.         Koi’s summary-judgment
evidence thus fails to establish but-for causation as a matter
of law.
    In holding to the contrary, the majority is effectively
allowing Koi to proceed on claims involving legal
malpractice without introducing any admissible evidence
concerning the merits of the underlying trademark dispute.
But this holding runs afoul of “more than 120 years” of
California precedent. See Viner, 70 P.3d at 1052. As
California courts have repeatedly held, the “established rule
of this state (and most others) [is] that one who establishes
malpractice on the part of his attorney in prosecuting or
defending a lawsuit must also prove that careful
management of it would have resulted in recovery of a
favorable judgment.” Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young &
Co., 60 Cal. Rptr. 2d 780, 787 (Cal. Ct. App. 1997)
(emphasis added) (quoting Campbell v. Magana, 8 Cal. Rptr.
32, 33 (Cal. Ct. App. 1960)); see also id. at 788 (explaining
that plaintiffs must “prove both the malpractice and the
underlying lawsuit” (emphasis added)).
    “The purpose of this requirement . . . is to safeguard
against speculative and conjectural claims.” Viner, 70 P.3d
at 1052. Yet a “speculative and conjectural” claim is exactly
what the majority’s ruling preserves—one that leaves the
factfinder with no choice but to speculate as to whether Koi’s
defenses were strong enough to preclude treble damages, if
only it had had competent counsel.
    In sum, because Koi introduced no admissible evidence
showing that it would have clearly avoided treble damages
if only it had had competent counsel, I conclude that Koi has
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           59


failed to establish but-for causation at the summary-
judgment stage. I will therefore proceed to the second step
of the substantial-factor analysis and consider whether Koi’s
evidence falls within the limited exception to but-for
causation based on a concurrent independent cause.
       b. Koi has failed to raise a genuine dispute of
          material fact that Marron’s actions were a
          concurrent independent cause of Koi’s damages
          for its legal-malpractice and negligent-
          supervision claims
    The second step of the substantial-factor analysis
requires Koi to show that Marron’s actions were a
“concurrent independent cause” of its damages. See Viner,
70 P.3d at 1051. To do so, Koi must prove (1) the existence
of independent causes of its damages that are not attributable
to Marron, and (2) that Marron’s conduct was nevertheless
“sufficient in the absence of the other[ causes] to bring
about” Koi’s damages. See id.; see also Restatement
(Second) of Torts § 432. This step thus permits a plaintiff to
establish causation even where causes unrelated to the
defendant’s misconduct could have produced the plaintiff’s
injury (thereby preventing the plaintiff from establishing
but-for causation), so long as the defendant’s conduct was
independently sufficient to cause the harm.
    The majority gives short shrift to this second step,
reasoning that “the exception for concurrent independent
causes does not apply because Koi’s theory of causation
relies on two dependent causes: Mastroianni’s misconduct
and Marron’s misconduct” during Marron’s representation
of Koi. Maj. Op. 34 (emphasis in original). But this
reasoning again misapprehends the relevant inquiry. By
focusing solely on “Koi’s theory of causation,” the majority
60         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


necessarily identifies only causes that are attributable to
Marron (“Mastroianni’s misconduct and Marron’s
misconduct”) because Koi’s theory is focused on imposing
liability on Marron.
     The concurrent-independent-causes inquiry, however,
asks a different question: whether there are causes not
attributable to Marron—i.e., causes independent of Koi’s
theory—that could potentially explain Koi’s damages. This
inquiry requires examining facts unrelated to Marron’s
conduct that might have produced the same harm.
    With respect to Koi’s claims for legal malpractice and
negligent supervision, I believe that there are two potential
causes of Koi’s damages that are not attributable to Marron.
The first is Koi’s lack of a meritorious trademark defense.
As explained above, because Koi presented no proof that the
district court would have declined to impose treble damages
if Koi had had competent counsel, the opposite must be
presumed—i.e., that Koi would have been subjected to treble
damages regardless of counsel’s performance. And because
Koi’s lack of a viable trademark defense is obviously not
Marron’s fault, this deficiency constitutes an independent
potential cause of Koi’s damages.
    The second potential cause of Koi’s damages is
Mastroianni’s continued mishandling of the SPI Litigation
long after he was terminated by Marron. The majority’s
recitation of the facts does not address what occurred during
this period; it instead simply notes that “Mastroianni
continued to represent Koi in the SPI Litigation while at
Bloom” and that the case “ended with the district court
imposing terminating sanctions on Koi.” Maj. Op. 15. This
included “granting default judgment to SPI” and
“award[ing] SPI $5,266,380.68 in damages.” Id. at 15–16.
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            61


But the record reflects that significant developments
occurred after Mastroianni left Marron, including additional
misconduct that contributed to the district court’s decision to
impose sanctions and treble damages. Those facts are
summarized below.
    I begin with the fact that after Marron terminated
Mastroianni in May 2017, Mastroianni joined Bloom, where
his mismanagement of the case continued. Despite receiving
a reminder from Marron associate Bill Hendricks,
Mastroianni immediately missed a June 19, 2017 deadline to
serve timely responses to SPI’s discovery requests. This
caused SPI to file an ex parte application on July 27, 2017,
asserting that Mastroianni had stopped responding to SPI’s
communications, making it impossible to confer about Koi’s
discovery deficiencies. The magistrate judge thereupon
ordered Koi to show cause why it should not be sanctioned
for failing to participate in discovery.
    In response, Mastroianni continued to evade Koi’s
discovery obligations by serving boilerplate objections to
SPI’s discovery requests, ignoring the requests of SPI’s
counsel to confer, and failing to appear at a discovery
hearing before the magistrate judge. As a result, on October
3, 2017, the magistrate judge issued an order compelling Koi
to produce complete discovery responses and instructing SPI
to move for sanctions. Mastroianni still failed to comply.
    On November 16, 2017, SPI filed a motion for case-
terminating sanctions, which the magistrate judge
recommended be granted. Six months later, however, the
district court declined to adopt the magistrate judge’s
recommendation and instead sanctioned Koi and
Mastroianni jointly in the amount of $250,000, warning that
case-terminating sanctions would follow if payment was not
62         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


made within 60 days. Mastroianni failed to inform Koi of
this sanction, and Koi did not pay it.
    Accordingly, the district court imposed case-terminating
sanctions and entered a default judgment on October 4,
2018, observing that “Koi repeatedly, unjustifiedly [sic], and
continuously failed to comply with Magistrate Judge Gail
Standish’s lawful orders.” The court then trebled the profits
that Koi allegedly earned from the infringing products as a
basis to award SPI $5,266,380.68 in damages.
    These facts reflect that Koi’s injury—the default
judgment and the treble-damages award—did not arise until
16 months after Marron’s involvement in the SPI Litigation
had ceased, and only after Mastroianni had engaged in
substantial additional misconduct. Marron cannot be held
responsible for that later misconduct under theories of either
legal malpractice or negligent supervision because both its
representation of Koi and its employment of Mastroianni had
long since ended. See Am. Cas. Co. v. O’Flaherty, 67 Cal.
Rptr. 2d 539, 543 (Cal. Ct. App. 1997) (explaining that an
attorney generally owes no duty of care without an attorney-
client relationship); Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc., 91 Cal.
Rptr. 3d 864, 872 (Cal. Ct. App. 2009) (explaining that “an
employer does not owe a duty of care to a customer or other
third party for posttermination tortious acts committed by a
former employee or agent after termination of his or her
employment or agency”). Mastroianni’s post-termination
misconduct is thus another independent cause that
potentially accounts for Koi’s damages.
   Given the existence of these two potential causes of
Koi’s damages that are not attributable to Marron, I next
consider whether, assuming those causes did not exist, any
conduct that is attributable to Marron would have
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC             63


nonetheless been “sufficient by itself to bring about the
harm.” See Viner, 70 P.3d at 1051. Through Koi’s legal-
malpractice and negligent-supervision claims, it seeks to
hold Marron responsible for Mastroianni’s misconduct
during his employment with Marron on the theory that
Marron breached both its duty of care as Koi’s counsel and
its duty to supervise as Mastroianni’s employer. See, e.g.,
Layton v. State Bar of Calif., 789 P.2d 1026, 1032 (Cal.
1990). The question, then, is whether, assuming that Koi
had a meritorious trademark defense and that Mastroianni
had not engaged in post-Marron misconduct, Mastroianni’s
malpractice while at Marron would have been independently
sufficient to result in the default judgment and the treble-
damages award.
    The answer is clearly “no.” Koi concedes that
Mastroianni’s only misconduct while at Marron was (1) his
failure to timely respond to SPI’s complaint (later remedied
by a stipulated extension), (2) his failure to confer with SPI’s
counsel and help prepare the joint Rule 26 report, and (3) his
failure to coordinate a timely response to SPI’s discovery
requests due on June 19, 2017. Such conduct falls far short
of the “extreme circumstances” required to justify the case-
terminating sanctions against Koi. See Dreith v. Nu Image,
Inc., 648 F.3d 779, 788 (9th Cir. 2011) (explaining that
“dismissal is a harsh penalty imposed only in extreme
circumstances”).
    Furthermore, if Koi really had a meritorious trademark
defense, the likelihood that the district court would have
entered a default judgment awarding treble damages—the
maximum amount recoverable under the Lanham Act—is
extremely low. See Eitel v. McCool, 782 F.2d 1470, 1471–
72 (9th Cir. 1986) (explaining that courts consider “the
merits of [the] plaintiff’s substantive claim” when deciding
64         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


whether to enter a default judgment); Cripps v. Life Ins. Co.
of N. Am., 980 F.2d 1261, 1267 (9th Cir. 1992) (noting that
“claims which are legally insufficient[] are not established
by default”). Indeed, the district court specifically noted that
Koi’s trademark defense was “dubious,” which likely
provided substantial additional justification for its decision
to impose treble damages.
    Koi therefore cannot show that Marron’s conduct was
sufficient by itself to bring about Koi’s damages under its
theories of either legal malpractice or negligent supervision.
And because Koi fails to raise a genuine dispute of material
fact as to either concurrent independent causation or but-for
causation, it cannot establish substantial-factor causation as
a matter of law. I therefore find no error in the district
court’s grant of summary judgment on those two claims.
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent from the majority’s
contrary ruling.
       c. Koi has raised a genuine dispute of material
          fact on its theory that Marron’s actions were a
          concurrent independent cause of Koi’s damages
          for its breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim
    I now turn to Koi’s breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim. In
contrast to Koi’s other claims, I believe that Koi has
presented sufficient evidence at the summary-judgment
stage for a reasonable jury to find that Marron’s actions were
a concurrent independent cause of Koi’s damages. As the
majority observes, Koi identifies two fiduciary duties that
Marron allegedly breached: (1) a duty to disclose material
developments in the SPI Litigation, including Mastroianni’s
mishandling of the case, and (2) a duty to supervise
Mastroianni as his employer. Maj. Op. 23–24. I believe that
only the former gives rise to a genuine dispute of material
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC           65


fact as to causation under the breach-of-fiduciary-duty
claim.
    With respect to the duty to supervise, the concurrent-
independent-causation analysis mirrors that for Koi’s legal-
malpractice and negligent-supervision claims. As explained
above, there are two independent causes unrelated to
Marron’s alleged failure to supervise that potentially explain
Koi’s damages—Koi’s lack of a meritorious trademark
defense and Mastroianni’s post-Marron misconduct.
Marron cannot be held responsible for either because the
merits of Koi’s trademark case have nothing to do with
Marron, and Marron had no duty to supervise Mastroianni
after his termination in May 2017. See Phillips, 91 Cal. Rptr.
3d at 872.
    Furthermore, even assuming that neither of these
independent causes existed, Mastroianni’s malpractice while
employed by Marron—which Koi attributes to Marron’s
lack of supervision—would not have been “sufficient by
itself to bring about” the default judgment and the treble-
damages award well over a year later. See Viner, 70 P.3d at
1051. Koi’s breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim based on
Marron’s duty to supervise therefore fails as a matter of law.
     The analysis differs with respect to Marron’s duty to
disclose. Mastroianni’s post-Marron misconduct can be
attributed to Marron because Koi’s theory is that Marron’s
failure to disclose Mastroianni’s misconduct lulled Koi into
not promptly replacing Mastroianni with competent counsel.
Koi contends, in other words, that Marron’s breach of its
fiduciary duty to disclose was “sufficient to bring about”
Koi’s damages because it enabled Mastroianni to continue
mishandling the trademark case, which ultimately resulted
66        KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


in the district court issuing the default judgment and the
treble-damages award. See Viner, 70 P.3d at 1051.
    This theory, of course, requires Koi to prove that
Marron’s nondisclosure was in fact the cause of
Mastroianni’s continued representation of Koi post-
termination. Put differently, Koi must show that had Marron
disclosed the misconduct, Mastroianni would not have
continued as Koi’s counsel; i.e., that Koi would have
promptly replaced him with a competent attorney. The key
question on summary judgment, then, is whether Koi has
raised a genuine dispute of material fact on this point.
Although an exceedingly close question, I conclude that Koi
has done so.
     The threshold inquiry is whether Marron carried its
initial burden of negating Koi’s allegation that Koi would
have promptly replaced Mastroianni. See Nissan Fire &
Marine Ins. Co. v. Fritz Cos., 210 F.3d 1099, 1106 (9th Cir.
2000) (explaining that the summary-judgment movant bears
the “initial burden” of “produc[ing] evidence negating an
essential element of the nonmoving party’s case”). I believe
that Marron has done so based on two incidents concerning
Koi’s prior responses to learning of Mastroianni’s
misconduct. Because the majority does not address either of
these incidents, I will briefly describe them here.
    First, Marron presented evidence that Koi had previously
declined to terminate Mastroianni despite learning that he
had engaged in similar misconduct while representing Koi
in an unrelated 2014 lawsuit. In that action, Koi’s opponent
Clay Burnett Group (Burnett) had obtained a money
judgment and sought to place a levy on Koi’s corporate bank
account. Burnett’s counsel sent Koi’s executive Jeremy
Husk the writ of execution along with a declaration stating
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC          67


that the money judgment was based on “monetary sanctions”
resulting from Koi’s failure to comply with discovery.
When Husk confronted Mastroianni with this writ of
execution, Mastroianni asserted that the judgment had been
issued in the wrong case and that the levy had been reversed.
This assertion was clearly false because the funds levied by
Burnett were ultimately removed from Koi’s account. Yet
despite having notice that Mastroianni had engaged in
sanctionable discovery misconduct and had lied to Koi about
it, Koi did not terminate Mastroianni or prevent him from
representing Koi in future matters.
    Second, Marron cited the report from the magistrate
judge in the SPI Litigation recommending the denial of
Koi’s motion to vacate the default judgment. In that report,
the magistrate judge noted that “on at least one occasion,
Husk reviewed a declaration that was, on its face, a response
to a specific court order – an order that would have given
Husk notice long ago that [SPI] was seeking terminating
sanctions based on the company’s and Mr. Matroianni’s [sic]
bad faith litigation.” Husk did indeed sign a declaration on
November 28, 2017 that was made “in response to the
Court’s October 3, 2017 order” (which compelled Koi to
produce complete discovery responses and instructed SPI to
move for sanctions) as well as “in opposition to [SPI’s
actual] motion for terminating sanctions.” This indicates
that Koi was on notice at that time that Mastroianni had
engaged in misconduct for which the district court intended
to impose sanctions. Yet Koi did not terminate Mastroianni
or replace him with new counsel until over a year later (in
December 2018), which was long after the entry of the
default judgment and the treble-damages award.
   Taken together, this evidence is more than sufficient to
negate Koi’s theory that it would have promptly replaced
68         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


Mastroianni had Marron warned it of his misconduct while
at Marron. Accordingly, the burden shifted to Koi to
produce evidence sufficient to raise a genuine dispute of
material fact on that issue. See In re Apple Comput. Sec.
Litig., 886 F.2d 1109, 1113 (9th Cir. 1989).
     The only evidence that Koi submitted to support its
theory is (1) a declaration from its CEO Kathy Peterson, and
(2) its Response to Marron’s Interrogatory No. 4. The
Peterson declaration and Koi’s Interrogatory Response No.
4 state, in nearly identical language, that “[h]ad [Koi] been
advised by . . . Hendricks or anyone else at Marron” that
Mastroianni had mishandled the SPI Litigation and “was a
malpractice liability,” Koi “would have terminated his
representation of Koi” and “would not have agreed to
terminate Marron’s representation of Koi until upcoming
litigation deadlines were met.” The critical inquiry,
therefore, is whether this evidence is sufficient to carry Koi’s
burden of raising a genuine factual dispute regarding its
assertion that it would have promptly replaced Mastroianni
with competent counsel.
    This presents a very close question. On the one hand,
this court has repeatedly held that “[a] conclusory, self-
serving affidavit, lacking detailed facts and any supporting
evidence, is insufficient to create a genuine issue of material
fact.” FTC v. Publ’g Clearing House, Inc., 104 F.3d 1168,
1171 (9th Cir. 1997); see also Nigro v. Sears, Roebuck &
Co., 784 F.3d 495, 497 (9th Cir. 2015) (“[A] self-serving
declaration does not always create a genuine issue of
material fact for summary judgment: The district court can
disregard a self-serving declaration that states only
conclusions and not facts that would be admissible
evidence.”); Villiarimo v. Aloha Island Air, Inc., 281 F.3d
1054, 1061 (9th Cir. 2002) (“[T]his court has refused to find
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC            69


a ‘genuine issue’ where the only evidence presented is
‘uncorroborated and self-serving’ testimony.” (quoting
Kennedy v. Applause, Inc., 90 F.3d 1477, 1481 (9th Cir.
1996))).
    The Peterson declaration and Koi’s Interrogatory
Response No. 4 arguably fall into this category of evidence.
Their assertions that Koi would have replaced Mastroianni
had it known of his misconduct are conclusory, boilerplate,
and uncorroborated by any specific evidence; indeed, Koi
fails to cite any documents or even specific factual details
that would tend to support them. Furthermore, the
statements are contradicted by the undisputed evidence of
Koi’s actual actions—namely, Koi’s decision to continue
working with Mastroianni even after learning of his
misconduct in the Burnett litigation and its failure to replace
Mastroianni in the SPI Litigation until over a year after
learning of the district court’s intent to impose sanctions.
    On the other hand, this court has cautioned that a district
court “is not to make credibility determinations or weigh
conflicting evidence, and is required to draw all inferences
in a light most favorable to the nonmoving party” at the
summary-judgment stage. Musick v. Burke, 913 F.2d 1390,
1394 (9th Cir. 1990). And numerous panels of this court
have denied summary judgment even when the nonmovant
offered only conclusory, self-serving, and uncorroborated
testimony. See, e.g., Santillan v. USA Waste of Calif., Inc.,
853 F.3d 1035, 1043 n.8 (9th Cir. 2017) (holding that “[a]n
employee’s ‘albeit uncorroborated and self-serving’
testimony is sufficient to establish a prima facie workplace
discrimination case if a reasonable jury could infer
discrimination from the employee’s testimony” (quoting
Nigro, 784 F.3d at 498)); In re SK Foods, L.P., 693 F. App’x
655, 656 (9th Cir. 2017) (holding that “the declarations
70         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


submitted by [plaintiffs], while often conclusory and self-
serving and even at times inconsistent with their earlier
testimony, created disputed issues of material fact”).
     Given the closeness of this question, I am ultimately
inclined to agree with the majority that Koi’s evidence,
though self-serving and arguably uncorroborated, is
sufficient to raise a genuine dispute on the replacement issue.
See Maj. Op. 37–38, 46–47. This is particularly so because
the very fact of CEO Peterson’s inquiry as to why Marron
had terminated Mastroianni itself gives rise to an inference
that a truthful answer might have caused a prompt change of
Koi’s counsel. I therefore conclude that Koi has presented
sufficient evidence of causation to permit a reasonable jury
to find in its favor on the breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim.
    Finally, I note that the majority asserts that my treatment
of Koi’s legal-malpractice and breach-of-fiduciary-duty
claims is “contradictory” because both claims “are based on
the very same alleged breach of Marron’s dut[y] to disclose,”
and therefore should be subject to the same causation
analysis. Maj. Op. 43. If the failure to disclose were in fact
the basis of Koi’s legal-malpractice claim, then I might be
inclined to agree. But the record shows that that is not Koi’s
theory.
    My reading of both Koi’s complaint and its summary-
judgment briefing below demonstrates that its legal-
malpractice claim against Marron rests on vicarious liability
for Mastroianni’s mishandling of the SPI Litigation while he
was employed by Marron. See, e.g., Koi SJ Opp. 19 (arguing
that “Marron is vicariously liable” for “incidents of
malpractice that occurred while [Mastroianni] was
employed by Marron”); id. at 22 (contending that Koi’s
“malpractice damages” were caused by “Mastroianni’s
           KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC             71


conduct while Marron represented Koi” (capitalization
altered)); id. at 23 (describing Marron’s acts of malpractice
by citing Mastroianni’s mishandling of the SPI Litigation
while at Marron).
    By contrast, Koi’s briefing discusses Marron’s failure to
disclose solely in connection with Koi’s breach-of-
fiduciary-duty claim. See, e.g., id. at 17 (contending that
Marron “breached [its] fiduciary duty by failing to disclose
Mastroianni’s conduct” (capitalization altered)).
    “In our adversarial system of adjudication, we follow the
principle of party presentation,” which “rel[ies] on the
parties to frame the issues for decision.” United States v.
Sineneng-Smith, 590 U.S. 371, 375 (2020) (quoting
Greenlaw v. United States, 554 U.S. 237, 128 (2008)). And
Koi may not “attempt to change [its] theory on appeal.” See,
e.g., Manriquez v. City of Phoenix, 654 F. App’x 350, 354
(9th Cir. 2016). Relying on both United States v. Wahid, 614
F.3d 1009, 1016 (9th Cir. 2010), and Yee v. City of
Escondido, 503 U.S. 519, 534 (1992), the majority asserts
that “once a ‘claim is properly presented, a party can make
any argument in support of that claim.’” Maj. Op. 43 n.11
(quoting Yee, 503 U.S. at 534). But that rule “allow[s] a
party to ‘adduce[] additional support for [its] side of an
issue’” and “refine and clarify its analysis in light of the
district court’s ruling,” not to raise a new theory if it “would
require [the appellate court] to recast appellants’ position in
the district court.” United States v. Little, 123 F.4th 1360,
1369 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (citations omitted) (explaining that
“Yee’s holding is not [] sweeping”). Yee does not alter the
well-settled rule that “[g]enerally, an appellate court will not
hear an issue raised for the first time on appeal.” Broad v.
Sealaska Corp., 85 F.3d 422, 430 (9th Cir. 1996).
72         KOI DESIGN LLC V. MARRON LAWYERS, APC


    Because Koi’s vicarious-liability theory of legal
malpractice permits resolution of causation as a matter of
law, whereas its failure-to-disclose theory of breach of
fiduciary duty does not, I see no inconsistency in affirming
summary judgment on the former claim while reversing on
the latter.
                      CONCLUSION
    For all of the reasons set forth above, I would affirm the
district court’s grant of summary judgment on Koi’s legal-
malpractice and negligent-supervision claims because Koi
has failed to establish substantial-factor causation as a matter
of law. I would, however, reverse the grant of summary
judgment on Koi’s breach-of-fiduciary-duty claim to the
extent that it is premised on Marron’s alleged failure to
disclose Mastroianni’s misconduct because Koi has raised a
genuine dispute of material fact on that issue. Accordingly,
I respectfully concur in part and dissent in part.
