          United States Court of Appeals
                        For the First Circuit

No. 25-1383


   IN RE: APELLIS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. SECURITIES LITIGATION


         RAY PELECKAS; MICHIGAN LABORERS’ PENSION FUND,
                       Plaintiffs, Appellants,

  JUDITH M. SODERBERG, individually and on behalf of all others
              similarly situated; RAUL PRADO RUIZ,
                             Plaintiffs,
                                  v.
         APELLIS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.; CEDRIC FRANCOIS,
                        Defendants, Appellees,

                  FEDERICO GROSSI; TIMOTHY SULLIVAN,
                             Defendants.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
               FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

              [Hon. Julia E. Kobick, U.S. District Judge]


                                Before

                     Aframe, Lynch, and Kayatta,
                           Circuit Judges.


     Andrew S. Love, with whom Robert M. Rothman, Mark T. Millkey,
Alan I. Ellman, and Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP were on brief,
for appellants.
     Peter J. Kolovos, with whom Daniel W. Halston, Dan Willey,
Edward W. Hasen, and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
were on brief, for appellees.
August 19, 2026
             AFRAME,      Circuit    Judge.       This    appeal     challenges       the

dismissal of a putative class action claiming securities fraud

under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of

1934 and Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b-5.                        In their

amended       complaint,           plaintiffs-appellants             alleged          that

defendants-appellees Apellis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Dr. Cedric

Francois,     Apellis's      Chief       Executive       Officer,     made       several

materially     misleading         statements     about    the     findings       of   two

clinical trials for its drug SYFOVRE, which was approved by the

Food   and    Drug    Administration        ("FDA")      and    is   in    use   today.

According     to    the   plaintiffs,      the    statements      were     half-truths

rendered     misleading     by     omissions     from    the    defendants'       public

statements about the results of the trials.

             The defendants moved to dismiss under Federal Rule of

Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), and the district court granted the motion

on two independent grounds.              First, the court concluded that the

plaintiffs' allegations did not support a plausible inference that

the omissions in question caused the challenged statements to be

materially misleading.           Second, it determined that the plaintiffs'

allegations        fell   short     of   establishing      that      the   challenged

statements were made with the scienter required by applicable law.

             We agree that the challenged statements cannot plausibly

be viewed as materially misleading and affirm on that basis without

ruling on the issue of scienter.                 After summarizing the case on


                                         - 3 -
the basis of the well-pleaded allegations, as supplemented by

"documents the authenticity of which are not disputed," "official

public records," and "documents sufficiently referred to" in the

amended complaint, Premca Extra Income Fund LP v. Angle, 178 F.4th

712, 718 (1st Cir. 2026) (citation modified), we explain our

reasoning.

          On August 2, 2023, plaintiffs Ray Peleckas and the

Michigan Laborers' Pension Fund brought this action in the U.S.

District Court for the District of Delaware on behalf of all

purchasers of Apellis common stock during the class period, which

ran from January 28, 2021, until July 28, 2023.     On June 3, 2024,

the presiding judge transferred the case to the U.S. District Court

for the District of Massachusetts to satisfy venue requirements.

          Apellis is a biopharmaceutical company that developed a

drug known as pegcetacoplan to treat geographic atrophy (“GA”), an

advanced form of age-related macular degeneration ("AMD") that can

ultimately cause blindness.    Pegcetacoplan is administered through

a series of intravitreal injections, i.e., injections directly

into the eye.   The drug does not improve eyesight but rather seeks

to slow GA's progression.     On February 17, 2023, the FDA approved

pegcetacoplan under the commercial name of SYFOVRE as a treatment

for GA.

          On July 15, 2023, following Apellis's commercialization

and distribution of SYFOVRE as an FDA-approved treatment for GA,


                                - 4 -
the American Society of Retinal Specialists ("ASRS") published a

letter stating that physicians had reported six incidents of

retinal vasculitis in patients treated with SYFOVRE.                  Retinal

vasculitis is an inflammation of the vessels of the retina that

can cause significant vision loss.              Two weeks later, Apellis

confirmed a seventh case and stated that it was investigating a

potential eighth case.        During this period, Apellis's stock price

declined significantly.         In November 2023, SYFOVRE's label was

updated to include a warning listing retinal vasculitis as a

potential side effect.        On December 21, 2023, an ASRS committee

published a second letter stating that, while "[t]here were no

reported   cases   of   retinal    vasculitis . . .       in   the   clinical

trials," there also was "no defined protocol in these studies to

obtain angiography in cases of intraocular inflammation," which is

a possible symptom for retinal vasculitis.

           At the beginning of the class period, in 2021, Apellis

was conducting two Phase III clinical studies, known as the OAKS

and DERBY studies, to test the use of pegcetacoplan as a treatment

for GA.    OAKS and DERBY were two-year studies that between them

enrolled more than a thousand participants aged sixty and older

who had been diagnosed with GA.               Study participants randomly

received either pegcetacoplan injections or sham treatments.

           This case involves more than a dozen statements by the

defendants   during     the   class    period   touting    the   absence   of


                                      - 5 -
occurrences of retinal vasculitis among trial participants.   Most

of the challenged statements asserted that no cases of retinal

vasculitis had been observed among participants during the OAKS

and DERBY clinical trials, although two of the statements could be

understood to have asserted more categorically that there were no

cases of retinal vasculitis among participants.    The plaintiffs

alleged that these statements, although not themselves false,

could plausibly be found to have been materially misleading. Why?

Because they were unaccompanied by an express acknowledgment that

the trials were not designed to detect retinal vasculitis, and

reasonable investors would have failed to understand that they

were not so designed.1

          The plaintiffs further alleged that, for interrelated

reasons, the defendants were concerned about the possibility of

pegcetacoplan injections causing retinal vasculitis as a side

effect.   First, the defendants regarded pegcetacoplan as a "lead

product candidate" that was crucial to Apellis's future.   Second,

the defendants were aware that side effects such as retinal


     1    The defendants say that the plaintiffs did not make this
precise argument about study design to the district court and thus
did not preserve it for our review.      The plaintiffs disagree,
arguing that this argument was the clear upshot of their pleaded
case theory, as elaborated in their opposition to the defendants'
motion to dismiss. We bypass any issue of forfeiture because, as
we will explain, the plaintiffs' design-of-the-study argument
fails on its merits. See Lafortune v. Garland, 110 F.4th 426, 432
n.2 (1st Cir. 2024) (engaging in a similar bypass of a potential
forfeiture issue).


                              - 6 -
vasculitis were likely to make doctors and patients hesitant to

try pegcetacoplan because the drug has only moderate benefits and

is administered through an unpleasant eye injection.                      Third, the

defendants knew that not long before the class period began,

emerging evidence that retinal vasculitis was a side effect of a

competitor's FDA-approved intravitreal AMD treatment had caused an

adverse impact on both the market for that treatment and the

competitor's stock price.

             Several important facts were either conceded by the

plaintiffs or are undisputed.          First, the fluorescein angiogram is

the   most   common     and    accepted    test      used    to    detect     retinal

vasculitis.         Second,    the   protocols     for      the    OAKS    and   DERBY

trials -- which       were    approved    by   the     FDA   and    made    publicly

available    on     ClinicalTrials.gov     --     required        that    fluorescein

angiograms be administered to trial participants on three separate

occasions during the two-year trial course: at the outset, at the

midpoint, and at the trials' conclusion.                     The protocols also

required that fluorescein angiograms be given to participants who

dropped out of the trials, but not for at least thirty days after

they stopped participating.          In addition, participating clinicians

were free to order fluorescein angiograms for trial participants

whenever     they    thought    that     doing    so     was      warranted      by   a

participant's symptoms. Third, there is no evidence that any trial

participants developed retinal vasculitis during or after the


                                       - 7 -
trials.      Indeed, there is no evidence of retinal vasculitis

occurring in test subjects during the more than ten years that

Apellis developed and tested pegcetacoplan prior to the drug's FDA

approval.      Fourth, and finally, Apellis conducted the OAKS and

DERBY trials by following the FDA-approved protocols.

            The problem, the plaintiffs argued, is that the trial

protocols did not require prompt follow-up fluorescein angiograms

for   retinal        vasculitis     when    study     participants     developed

intraocular inflammation or ischemic neuropathy, which can be

symptoms of retinal vasculitis and which occurred with greater

frequency in study participants who received pegcetacoplan than in

those who received the sham treatment.2                   Nor did they require

immediate      follow-up      fluorescein       angiograms   when    participants

dropped out of the studies.          The plaintiffs alleged that, because

the defendants would have required these actions had they designed

the   trials    to    test    for   retinal      vasculitis,   the    defendants'

statements     about    the    absence     of   retinal   vasculitis    in   trial

participants constitute misleading half-truths.3                The plaintiffs




      2   This argument was supported by the plaintiffs' expert,
Dr. Demetrios Vavvas, who is the Solman and Libe Friedman Professor
of Ophthalmology and Co-Director of the Ocular Regenerative
Medicine Institute at Harvard Medical School. Dr. Vavvas also is
the Director of the Retina Service at Massachusetts Eye and Ear.
      3   The plaintiffs appear to presume, but plead no facts to
support the assumption that, trial participants -- including those
dropping out of the trials -- could have developed vasculitis but


                                      - 8 -
argued that to have made these statements in a non-misleading

manner, the defendants would have needed to advise investors that

the protocols were not designed to test for retinal vasculitis.

The    absence      of   such         a   statement    was   thus,    according      to    the

plaintiffs, an actionable material omission.

               The defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint

for,       inter    alia,    a    failure       to     plausibly     allege    a   material

misrepresentation or omission and a failure to plausibly allege

that they had acted with the requisite scienter.                        See Premca, 178

F.4th at 723 ("A plausible § 10(b) claim requires well-pleaded

allegations of: (1) a material misrepresentation or omission; (2)

scienter; (3) a connection with the purchase or sale of a security;

(4) reliance; (5) economic loss; and (6) loss causation." (citation

omitted)).          The district court agreed with both arguments and

accordingly granted the defendants' motion.                          As noted above, we

confine       our    focus       to       whether    the   court   committed       error   in

concluding as a matter of law that the plaintiffs failed to

identify      a     material      misrepresentation          or    omission.        See    id.

(applying de novo review to the grant of a motion to dismiss a

securities fraud action under § 10(b)).4


that it resolved on its own before their next scheduled fluorescein
angiogram.
       4  A claim for securities fraud under section 10(b) is also
subject to the heightened pleading requirements of Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 9(b) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"), 15 U.S.C. §§ 78u-4, 78u-5. See Premca, 178


                                               - 9 -
          In ruling on the defendants' motion to dismiss, the

district court identified two alleged omissions as grounding the

plaintiffs' liability theory.         First, the defendants failed to

state how frequently Apellis used fluorescein angiography to test

for retinal vasculitis.     Second, defendants failed to state that

their testing protocols were inadequate to detect that condition.

The court then held, as a matter of law, that neither omission

made the challenged statements misleading.          The first omission was

not actionable because the frequency of testing under the protocols

was fully disclosed to investors in public statements well before

the defendants made the challenged statements.            The second was not

actionable because it was rooted only in a disagreement about the

adequacy of the scientific methodology employed in the studies,

which under prevailing law cannot give rise to a securities fraud

claim.

          On appeal, the plaintiffs argue that the district court

misunderstood   and    therefore    did     not   address    their   material

misrepresentation     theory.      That   theory    is,     again,   that   the

defendants' statements about the absence of occurrences of retinal

vasculitis among OAKS and DERBY study participants during the class

period, while literally true, were misleading half-truths because

the defendants failed to disclose that the studies were not


F.4th at 723.   But these additional requirements do not factor
into our analysis.


                                   - 10 -
designed to test for that condition.             In our view, the plaintiffs'

theory fails to ground a viable securities fraud claim because,

under the circumstances as alleged, the challenged statements are

not actionable half-truths.

            "Half truths . . . are 'representations that state the

truth only so far as it goes, while omitting critical qualifying

information.'"       Macquarie Infrastructure Corp. v. Moab Partners,

L.P., 601 U.S. 257, 263 (2024) (quoting Universal Health Servs.,

Inc. v. United States ex rel. Escobar, 579 U.S. 176, 188 (2016)).

Here, there was no omission of such information.                    Although the

plaintiffs frame their appellate argument in terms of the omission

being a statement regarding the intentions of the study designers,

their theory of deception actually rests on two more specific

omissions: (1) omitting a statement that the OAKS and DERBY

protocols left to treating clinicians the decision whether to order

a fluorescein angiogram upon the appearance of inflammation and

ischemic neuropathy in study participants, rather than requiring

one in all such cases; and (2) omitting a statement that the

protocols did not require that participants who left the studies

to receive fluorescein angiograms until more than thirty days after

their departures.

            True,    the   defendants      did   not   explicitly    state    that

fluorescein    angiograms     were    not     automatically    given     to    all

sufferers     of    inflammation     and    ischemic     neuropathy     or    that


                                     - 11 -
fluorescein angiograms were not given to those leaving the OAKS

and DERBY studies within thirty days of their exits. Nevertheless,

the defendants disclosed both facts by providing full and complete

disclosures of when fluorescein angiograms would be given to trial

participants.   In other words, investors knew what the defendants

were doing and the outcomes arising from those actions.5            In this

way, the present situation materially differs from SEC v. Lemelson,

57 F.4th 17 (1st Cir. 2023), and SEC v. Johnston, 986 F.3d 63 (1st

Cir. 2021), two cases on which the plaintiffs rely.

            Lemelson supports the premise that technically true but

misleading "half-truths" can give rise to liability.            See 57 F.4th

at 23-25.    In Lemelson, the defendant stated, inter alia, that a

biopharmaceutical   company   did   not   intend    to   conduct   clinical

trials but failed to disclose that the company instead planned to

hire a third party to conduct the trials.          Id. at 24.    This Court

first determined that a reasonable jury could have concluded that

the defendant's statement was a factual assertion, not a statement

of opinion, because it "expressed certainty" and was not prefaced



     5    The plaintiffs suggest that investors might not have had
the scientific expertise to understand whether the protocols'
testing procedures were sufficient to detect retinal vasculitis.
We do not foreclose the possibility that, in some other case, the
scientific details might be so complex that the hypothetical
reasonable investor might be misled by a defendant's more
accessible plain-English statements notwithstanding the public
availability of technically dense documents describing the testing
protocols.


                                - 12 -
by "I think" or "I believe."      Id. (citation modified).      The Court

then   determined   that   the   offending   statement   was   "factually

contradicted" by the company's plan to hire a third party to

conduct the trials.   Id.   Thus, while it was true that the company

would not conduct trials itself, that was an actionable half-truth

because the company omitted to state that it was going to hire a

third party to conduct the trials on its behalf.

           Johnston is similar.       Like Lemelson, it supports the

premise that technically true but misleading half-truths can form

the basis of a securities-fraud claim.           986 F.3d at 72.       In

Johnston, a company executive stated that he could not speculate

whether the FDA would require the company to conduct a second

clinical trial and that there had been no formal discussions with

the FDA about a second trial.       Id. at 72-73.    But the executive

did not disclose that the FDA had recommended a second trial.         Id.

As in Lemelson, the Court concluded that this omission rendered

the statement made a misleading half-truth.       Id. at 73-74.

           Here, in contrast, there were neither contradictions nor

undisclosed facts.     The defendants reported that their clinical

studies found two side effects that are symptomatic of retinal

vasculitis: retinal inflammation and ischemic neuropathy.             The

defendants then announced that there were no observed cases of

retinal vasculitis.   These facts provide some basis for reasonable

investors to infer that the defendants were testing for retinal


                                  - 13 -
vasculitis. But they do not create a factual contradiction because

both the OAKS and DERBY studies employed fluorescein angiography

at set times and fluorescein angiography is the most common method

used to test for retinal vasculitis.

            In short, there is no actionable claim here because the

information provided by the defendants was accurate and did not

conceal material information.    The trial protocols were public and

followed, the tests used in the studies would detect retinal

vasculitis, and no retinal vasculitis was detected in any study

participant.    Because everything disclosed was accurate and no

"critical    qualifying   information"   was   withheld,   Macquarie

Infrastucture Corp., 601 U.S. at 263 (citation modified), the

district court properly dismissed the complaint.

            Affirmed.




                                - 14 -
