                 FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

CATHY POVER, individually and              No. 24-5298
on behalf of all others similarly
                                            D.C. No.
situated,
                                         2:23-cv-09657-
                                            GW-PVC
            Plaintiff - Appellee,

 v.
                                            OPINION
THE CAPITAL GROUP
COMPANIES, INC.; THE BOARD
OF DIRECTORS OF THE
CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES,
INC., and its members; and THE U.S.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
COMMITTEE OF THE CAPITAL
GROUP COMPANIES INC., and its
members, Does 1–30,

            Defendants - Appellants.

       Appeal from the United States District Court
          for the Central District of California
        George H. Wu, District Judge, Presiding

         Argued and Submitted August 11, 2025
                 Pasadena, California

                   Filed July 30, 2026
2          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


    Before: Jacqueline H. Nguyen, Danielle J. Forrest, and
             Lawrence VanDyke, Circuit Judges.

                  Opinion by Judge Forrest;
                  Dissent by Judge VanDyke


                          SUMMARY*


                      ERISA/Arbitration

    The panel affirmed the district court’s denial of
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration in a case in which
Cathy Pover sued her former employer, The Capital Group
Companies, Inc., and its fiduciaries on behalf of her
employer’s retirement-savings plan, The Capital Retirement
Savings Plan (the Plan), alleging that the fiduciaries
mismanaged the Plan’s investments.
    The Plan is covered by the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), which permits plan
participants to seek relief on a plan’s behalf for breach of the
duties owed by the plan’s fiduciaries. The Plan contract
included an arbitration requirement and a waiver by plan
participants of any claims brought on “a class, collective, or
representative basis.”
    The panel considered the interaction between ERISA,
which entitles plan participants to sue for mismanagement of
their retirement plan, and the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA),


*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.            3


which requires courts to enforce valid agreements to
arbitrate. At the intersection of these statutes is the judicially
created effective-vindication doctrine that renders
unenforceable arbitration agreements that prevent the
vindication of statutorily protected rights and remedies.
    Because the Plan’s waiver provision forbids Pover from
asserting her rights under ERISA to sue as a representative
of the Plan for Plan-wide relief, the panel agreed with the
district court that the waiver is unenforceable under the
effective-vindication doctrine. Pover alleges fiduciary
breaches that fall squarely within the category of duties that
ERISA § 409 imposes on plan fiduciaries, and under ERISA
§ 502(a)(2), Pover is entitled to bring an action on behalf of
the Plan to recover any resulting losses as well as such other
equitable or remedial relief as the court may deem
appropriate. The Plan’s representative-action waiver
prevents Pover from enforcing her substantive rights under
ERISA because her breach-of-fiduciary-duty claims can
only be brought in a representative capacity. Accordingly,
the waiver is unenforceable under the effective-vindication
doctrine.
    Addressing the severability of the waiver and arbitration
provisions, the panel concluded that Pover’s breach-of-
fiduciary duty claims must be adjudicated in court rather
than arbitration because the Plan’s waiver provision
expressly provides that if it “is found to be unenforceable by
a court of competent jurisdiction, then any claim on a class,
collective, or representative basis shall be filed and
adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and not in
arbitration.”
    Dissenting, Judge VanDyke wrote that the majority errs
twice over in finding the arbitration clause unenforceable.
4         POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


On the merits, he would hold that the bar on “representative”
suits in the arbitration clause’s class-action waiver does not
refer to third-party suits on behalf of the Plan. When read in
context, that phrase refers to class action or collective
“representative”      suits    only,     not    principal-agent
representative suits like section 502(a)(2) ERISA claims.
    But the panel should not have even reached the issue of
arbitrability because the parties expressly agreed to allow an
arbitrator to decide threshold questions of arbitrability,
expressing their desire to keep courts out of this dispute.
Although Capital failed to make that argument before the
district court, its failure to do so falls squarely within the
exceptions to waiver. Judge VanDyke would have waived
waiver and sent the question of arbitrability to the arbitrator.



                         COUNSEL

Charles H. Field Jr. (argued), Hilary R. Rosenthal, and
Myounghee Choung, Sanford Heisler Sharp McKnight LLP,
La Jolla, California; David B. McNamee, Kristi Stahnke
McGregor, and Kevin H. Sharp, Sanford Heisler Sharp
McKnight LLP, Nashville, Tennessee; Sharon Kim, Sanford
Heisler Sharp McKnight LLP, New York, New York;
Hampton M. Watson, Sanford Heisler Sharp McKnight
LLP, Washington, D.C.; for Plaintiff-Appellee.
Parker A. Rider-Longmaid (argued) and Shay Dvoretzky,
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, Washington,
D.C.; Michael S. Hines, Mary E. Grinman, and James R.
Carroll, Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, Boston,
Massachusetts; Jeremy Patashnik, Skadden Arps Slate
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.         5


Meagher & Flom LLP, New York, New York; Jason D.
Russell, Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, Los
Angeles, California; for Defendants-Appellants.
Leah M. Nicholls, Public Justice PC, Washington, D.C., for
Amicus Curiae Public Justice.




                         OPINION

FORREST, Circuit Judge:

    Cathy Pover sued her former employer, The Capital
Group Companies, Inc., and its fiduciaries on behalf of her
employer’s retirement-savings plan for the fiduciaries’
mismanagement of the plan’s investments. The plan is
covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974 (ERISA), which permits plan participants to seek
relief on a plan’s behalf for breach of the duties owed by the
plan’s fiduciaries. However, the plan contract included an
arbitration requirement and a waiver by plan participants of
any claims brought on “a class, collective, or representative
basis.” Because this waiver provision forbids Pover from
asserting her rights under ERISA to sue as a representative
of the plan for plan-wide relief, we agree with the district
court that the waiver is unenforceable under the effective-
vindication doctrine, and we affirm the district court’s denial
of defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
6        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


                     BACKGROUND
                       A. The Plan
     Capital Group is a global asset manager that sponsors a
retirement plan for its current and former employees known
as The Capital Retirement Savings Plan (Plan). The Plan
allows each participant to maintain an individual account
funded by contributions from each participant and Capital
Group, as well as the participant’s investment earnings. The
participants may direct how their individual accounts are
invested by selecting from a menu of investment options
provided by the Plan. Capital Group collects a transaction
fee from the investment funds included in the Plan’s menu.
    The Plan is a “defined contribution plan.” The Supreme
Court has explained that “a ‘defined contribution plan’ or
‘individual account plan’ promises the participant the value
of an individual account at retirement, which is largely a
function of the amounts contributed to that account and the
investment performance of those contributions.” LaRue v.
DeWolff, Boberg & Assocs., Inc., 552 U.S. 248, 250 n.1
(2008). A “defined benefit plan,” in contrast, “promises the
participant a fixed level of retirement income, which is
typically based on the employee’s years of service and
compensation.” Id. While defined-benefit plans were once
“the norm,” defined-contribution plans have become the
leading form of private retirement-plan offerings. See id. at
255 (citation omitted).
   The Plan is governed by ERISA and the terms of its Plan
Document. According to the Plan Document, the
Administrative Committee serves as the Plan’s fiduciary and
may amend or modify the Plan. As relevant here, the
Committee amended the Plan before this litigation by adding
two provisions related to dispute resolution: (1) an
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.          7


arbitration requirement and (2) a waiver of class, collective,
and representative actions. The arbitration requirement
dictates that “[a]ny claim, controversy or alleged breach or
violation of law that arises out of or relates in any way to the
Plan or a claimant’s participation in the Plan and seeks a
remedy, ruling or judgment of any kind against the Plan”
must be resolved in arbitration. And the waiver provision
states:

       A Participant, former Participant, or
       Beneficiary must bring any dispute in
       arbitration on an individual basis only, and
       not on a class, collective or representative
       basis and must waive the right to commence,
       be a party to, or be an actual or putative class
       member of any class, collective, or
       representative action arising out of or relating
       to the Plan, including, but not limited to, any
       claims related to the Plan.

The waiver also specifies that if it “is found to be
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then any
claim on a class, collective, or representative basis shall be
filed and adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction,
and not in arbitration.”
                      B. The Lawsuit
    Pover sued Capital Group, the Committee, Capital
Group’s Board of Directors, and other fiduciaries
responsible for controlling and managing the Plan’s
investments (hereinafter, collectively, Capital Group). She
alleged that Capital Group breached its fiduciary duties to
the Plan by retaining certain investment options for
participants despite their poor performance. Pover further
8         POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


alleged that Capital Group knew certain investment funds
were underperforming but retained them in its offerings to
collect the substantial transaction fees generated by the
funds. She asserted that Capital Group’s failure to remove
these funds from the Plan’s investment menu violated its
duties of prudence and loyalty to the Plan, and that Capital
Group failed to monitor its delegees, further harming the
Plan.
    Pover sued Capital Group “in a representative capacity
on behalf of the Plan . . . , seeking appropriate relief . . . to
protect the interests of the entire Plan.” She sought several
forms of plan-wide monetary and equitable relief provided
under ERISA. Among these, declarations that the Capital
Group fiduciaries breached their duties owed to the Plan and
“are personally liable to make good to the Plan”; “restitution
and disgorgement”; and an order (1) requiring the Capital
Group’s fiduciaries to pay “the losses resulting from each
breach of fiduciary duty and to restore to the Plan” any lost
profits, (2) removing Plan fiduciaries found to have
breached their duties and enjoining them from future
violations, (3) “reform[ing] the Plan to include only prudent
investments,” and (4) granting all “other equitable or
remedial relief the Court deems appropriate.”
    Capital Group moved to compel arbitration under the
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), asserting that Pover is bound
by the Plan’s arbitration requirement. Pover opposed Capital
Group’s motion, arguing that the Plan’s representative-
action waiver was unenforceable under the effective-
vindication doctrine, and arbitration was thus not required,
because the waiver foreclosed her ability to represent the
Plan and pursue plan-wide relief on its behalf, undermining
her rights under ERISA. Pover also argued that neither she
nor the Plan had agreed to arbitrate future claims against
         POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.         9


Capital Group. Finally, Pover contended that the arbitration
provision is unconscionable and non-severable.
    The district court denied Capital Group’s motion to
compel arbitration. It agreed that the Plan’s representative-
action waiver could not be enforced because it prospectively
waived Pover’s substantive rights and remedies under
ERISA. The district court explained that ERISA creates a
statutory cause of action allowing plan participants to sue on
behalf of their plan and recover plan-wide monetary and
equitable relief. The court reasoned that Pover’s action was
“necessarily a representative action seeking plan-wide
recovery” and that enforcing the representative-action
waiver would prevent her from “bring[ing] any of her claims
in a representative capacity on behalf of the Plan.”
Therefore, it held that the waiver was unenforceable. It also
held that the waiver was expressly non-severable because it
required any collective or representative claim to proceed in
court if found unenforceable. Capital Group appealed.
                       DISCUSSION
    We have jurisdiction to review the district court’s denial
of a motion to compel arbitration under 9 U.S.C. § 16(a)(1).
We review the district court’s decision and its interpretation
of ERISA de novo. Blair v. Rent-A-Center, Inc., 928 F.3d
819, 824 (9th Cir. 2019); Stand Up for California! v. U.S.
Dep’t of the Interior, 959 F.3d 1154, 1158 (9th Cir. 2020).
To promote uniformity, we interpret the language of ERISA
documents as a matter of federal common law rather than
state law. Mull v. Motion Picture Indus. Health Plan, 41
F.4th 1120, 1130 n.8 (9th Cir. 2022).
    This case requires us to consider the interaction between
two federal statutes: ERISA, which entitles plan participants
to sue for mismanagement of their retirement plan, and the
10        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


FAA, which requires courts to enforce valid agreements to
arbitrate. At the intersection of these statutes is the judicially
created effective-vindication doctrine that renders
unenforceable arbitration agreements that prevent the
vindication of statutorily protected rights and remedies. We
begin our analysis by explaining these background legal
principles. We then apply them to determine whether the
Plan’s representative-action waiver is enforceable. Because
we conclude that the waiver is not enforceable under the
effective-vindication doctrine, we need not address Pover’s
remaining challenges to arbitration.
                     A. Legal Principles
                          1. ERISA
    “ERISA is a comprehensive and reticulated statute, the
product of a decade of congressional study of the Nation’s
private employee benefit system.” Great-W. Life & Annuity
Ins. Co. v. Knudson, 534 U.S. 204, 209 (2002) (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted). In this expansive
statutory system, two ERISA sections work together to
provide participants in ERISA-governed plans with a federal
cause of action to enforce the duties owed to the plan by its
fiduciaries. See Mass. Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Russell, 473 U.S.
134, 139–40, 142 & n.9 (1985); Platt v. Sodexo, S.A., 148
F.4th 709, 721 (9th Cir. 2025).
    First, § 409(a) imposes liability on fiduciaries who
breach their duties to the plan and outlines the remedies
available. See 29 U.S.C. § 1109(a). The statute provides:

        Any person who is a fiduciary with respect to
        a plan who breaches any of the
        responsibilities, obligations, or duties
        imposed upon fiduciaries by this subchapter
         POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.        11


       shall be personally liable to make good to
       such plan any losses to the plan resulting
       from each such breach, and to restore to such
       plan any profits of such fiduciary which have
       been made through use of assets of the plan
       by the fiduciary, and shall be subject to such
       other equitable or remedial relief as the court
       may deem appropriate, including removal of
       such fiduciary.

Id. “[T]he principal statutory duties imposed on [fiduciaries]
relate to the proper management, administration, and
investment of fund assets, the maintenance of proper
records, the disclosure of specific information, and the
avoidance of conflicts of interest.” Russell, 473 U.S. at 142–
43.
    Second, § 502(a)(2) creates the enforcement mechanism.
See 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a)(2). It provides that “[a] civil action
may be brought . . . by the Secretary [of Labor], or by a
participant, beneficiary or fiduciary for appropriate relief
under” § 409(a). Id. “Section 502(a)(2) thus acts as the
vehicle for plan participants to obtain the relief made
available by § 409(a).” Platt, 148 F.4th at 721.
    The Supreme Court has examined how these ERISA
sections operate for breach-of-fiduciary-duty claims brought
by both defined-benefit and defined-contribution plan
participants. Russell, 473 U.S. at 136; LaRue, 552 U.S. at
252–56. And it has made clear that, in both contexts,
plaintiffs bringing a claim under § 502(a)(2) proceed on the
plan’s behalf. Russell, 473 U.S. at 142 n.9 (“[A]ctions for
breach of fiduciary duty [under § 502(a)(2) are] brought in a
representative capacity on behalf of the plan as a whole.”);
LaRue, 552 U.S. at 253 (explaining that § 502(a)(2)
12        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


“authorizes the Secretary of Labor as well as plan
participants, beneficiaries, and fiduciaries, to bring actions
on behalf of a plan”).
    Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Russell
dealt with a defined-benefit plan. There, a participant in an
ERISA-backed employee-benefits plan sued a plan fiduciary
under § 502(a)(2) and sought “extra-contractual
compensatory or punitive damages caused by improper or
untimely processing” of her medical-benefit claim. 473 U.S.
at 136. The plan participant contended that the fiduciaries’
delayed processing of her individual claim caused actionable
harm. See id. at 136–38. The Supreme Court held that
§ 502(a)(2) precluded such individualized relief: “A fair
contextual reading of the statute makes it abundantly clear
that its draftsmen were primarily concerned with the possible
misuse of plan assets, and with remedies that would protect
the entire plan, rather than with the rights of an individual
beneficiary.” Id. at 142 (emphasis added). The Court further
noted that “the principal statutory duties” that § 409(a)
imposes on fiduciaries are those “relate[d] to the proper
management, administration, and investment of fund assets,
the maintenance of proper records, the disclosure of
specified information, and the avoidance of conflicts of
interest.” Id. at 142–43. Thus, “the entire text of § 409(a)”
persuaded the Court “that Congress did not intend that
section to authorize relief except for the plan itself.” Id. at
144.
    Thirty years later, the Supreme Court revisited
§ 502(a)(2) in the context of a defined-contribution plan.
LaRue, 552 U.S. at 250–51. In LaRue v. DeWolff, Boberg &
Associates, Inc., a retirement-plan participant alleged that a
fiduciary had failed to make changes that he directed to his
individual investment portfolio, “‘deplet[ing]’ his interest in
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.        13


the [p]lan” and “amount[ing] to a breach of fiduciary duty
under ERISA.” Id. at 251. The plan participant sued seeking
“make-whole” monetary recovery for the alleged breach. Id.
    The Supreme Court held that the misconduct the plan
participant alleged concerning the fiduciary’s failure to
maximize the value of his investment account “f[ell]
squarely within th[e] category” of fiduciary duties owed to
the plan that are addressed in § 409(a), id. at 253, because
“trustees are chargeable with any profit which would have
accrued to the trust estate if there had been no breach of
trust,” id. at 253 n.4 (citation modified). In doing so, the
Court distinguished its previous language in Russell, which
had recognized that ERISA’s “draftsmen were primarily
concerned . . . with remedies that would protect the entire
plan.” Id. at 254 (quoting Russell, 473 U.S. at 142). The
Court explained that “Russell’s emphasis on protecting the
‘entire plan’ from fiduciary misconduct reflect[ed] the
former landscape of employee benefit plans,” which was
dominated by defined-benefit plans under which
participants’ individual entitlement to benefits was not
threatened unless fiduciary misconduct “risk[s] . . . default
by the entire plan.” Id. at 254–55.
    The Court also clarified that in the defined-contribution-
plan context, “fiduciary misconduct need not threaten the
solvency of the entire plan to reduce [individual] benefits
below the amount that participants would otherwise
receive.” Id. at 255–56. For defined-contribution plans,
“[w]hether a fiduciary breach diminishes plan assets payable
to all participants and beneficiaries, or only to persons tied
to particular individual accounts, it creates the kind of harms
that concerned” ERISA’s draftsmen, making a § 502(a)(2)
claim appropriate. Id. at 256. That is, LaRue “recognized that
Section 409(a) protects against breaches of fiduciary duty
14        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


involving the management of assets within defined
contribution plans,” regardless of whether the injury is felt
at the plan level or at the individual-account level. Cedeno v.
Sasson, 100 F.4th 386, 399 (2d Cir. 2024). In either scenario,
the plaintiff-participant proceeds on behalf of the plan and
the remedies afforded by ERISA benefit the plan. LaRue,
552 U.S. at 253–56; see also Russell, 473 U.S. at 142 n.9;
Munro v. Univ. of S. Cal., 896 F.3d 1088, 1093 (9th Cir.
2018) (“[T]he [LaRue] Court made clear that it had not
reconsidered its longstanding recognition that it is the plan,
and not the individual beneficiaries and participants, that
benefit from a winning claim for breach of fiduciary duty,
even when the plan is a defined contribution plan.”).
                          2. FAA
     Congress enacted the FAA in 1925 as a “response to
widespread judicial hostility to arbitration.” Am. Express Co.
v. Italian Colors Rest., 570 U.S. 228, 232 (2013). The FAA
established “a liberal federal policy favoring arbitration
agreements.” Moses H. Cone Mem’l Hosp. v. Mercury
Constr. Corp., 460 U.S. 1, 24 (1983). It provides that “[a]
written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a
transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or
transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” 9 U.S.C. § 2.
    Consistent with its underlying purpose, the FAA’s
“mandate is to enforce arbitration agreements,” Viking River
Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana, 596 U.S. 639, 653 (2022) (citation
modified), and to protect parties’ choices for where and
under what procedures to resolve their disputes, id. (“[A]n
arbitration agreement is ‘a specialized kind of forum-
            POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.                  15


selection clause that posits not only the situs of suit but also
the procedure to be used in resolving the dispute.’” (quoting
Scherk v. Alberto-Culver Co., 417 U.S. 506, 519 (1974))).
But there is an exception for arbitration agreements that
purport to waive substantive rights and remedies. See id.
This exception is known as the effective-vindication
doctrine. Italian Colors, 570 U.S. at 235.
              3. Effective-Vindication Doctrine
    An arbitration agreement “does not alter or abridge
substantive rights; it merely changes how those rights will
be processed.” Viking River Cruises, 596 U.S. at 653.
Indeed, “[b]y agreeing to arbitrate a statutory claim, a party
does not forgo the substantive rights afforded by the statute;
it only submits to their resolution in an arbitral, rather than a
judicial, forum.” Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-
Plymouth, Inc., 473 U.S. 614, 628 (1985). Thus, where “a
provision in an arbitration agreement forbid[s] the assertion
of certain statutory rights,” preventing the vindication of
those rights, courts will invalidate the provision “on ‘public
policy’ grounds.”1 Italian Colors, 570 U.S. at 235–36.
   We recently joined several of our sister circuits in
holding that “arbitration provisions preventing individuals
from obtaining the plan-wide relief available under § 409(a)


1
   The Supreme Court has discussed with approval the effective-
vindication doctrine and repeatedly recognized that arbitration
provisions may not prevent a party from effectively vindicating statutory
rights and securing statutory remedies. See, e.g., Italian Colors, 570 U.S.
at 235–36; see also Cedeno, 100 F.4th at 396 (collecting cases); Harrison
v. Envision Mgmt. Holding, Inc. Bd. of Dirs., 59 F.4th 1090, 1098 (10th
Cir. 2023) (“[T]he Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized the
existence of the effective vindication exception.”). But the Court has yet
to invalidate an arbitration provision based on this doctrine.
16        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


violate the effective-vindication doctrine.” Platt, 148 F.4th
at 721; see id. at 721–22 (collecting cases). Platt v. Sodexo,
S.A. involved an arbitration provision in an ERISA-governed
health-insurance plan that “prohibit[ed] claims brought ‘as a
plaintiff or class member in any purported class or
representative proceeding.’” Id. at 715. The plaintiff-
employee sued his employer for breach of fiduciary duties in
violation of § 409(a), and we considered whether the plan’s
arbitration provision violated the effective-vindication
doctrine by preventing the employee from obtaining the only
relief afforded by § 409(a)—relief for the plan. Id. at 714–
15.
    We began our analysis by explaining that the effective-
vindication doctrine prevents enforcement of an arbitration
provision “if it ‘operate[s] as a prospective waiver of a
party’s right to pursue statutory remedies,’ including a
prohibition on ‘the assertion of certain statutory rights.’” Id.
at 721 (alteration in original) (quoting Italian Colors, 570
U.S. at 235–36). We then addressed the same two ERISA
sections at play here, confirming that because § 409(a)
“provides relief ‘singularly to the plan’ rather than an
individual plaintiff, § 502(a)(2) claims asserting breach of
fiduciary duty actionable under § 409(a) are understood as
claims ‘brought in a representative capacity on behalf of the
plan as a whole.’” Id. (quoting Russell, 473 U.S. at 142 &
n.9). And we concluded that because the arbitration
provision prohibited claims brought “in any . . .
representative proceeding,” it was unenforceable because it
precluded the plaintiff “from bringing claims in a
representative capacity on the Plan’s behalf” and “from
obtaining the plan-wide relief available under § 409(a).” Id.
at 715, 721.
            POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.                  17


                           B. Application
    With this legal backdrop, we consider whether the Plan’s
representative-action waiver violates the effective-
vindication doctrine.2
              1. Representative-Action Waiver
    Pover’s complaint makes clear that she seeks to represent
the Plan and to pursue the full extent of plan-wide relief
available under ERISA. The complaint cites § 502(a)(2),
noting that the statute “authorizes any participant or
beneficiary of the Plan to bring an action individually on
behalf of the Plan to enforce a breaching fiduciary’s liability
to the plan” under § 409(a). And it states that Pover seeks to
“act[] in this representative capacity.”
    The complaint also outlines a spectrum of both monetary
recovery and equitable remedies sought that would
necessarily affect the entire Plan. For example, Pover seeks
a court order requiring that the breaching fiduciaries “make
good to the Plan as a whole the losses resulting from each
breach of fiduciary duty and to restore to the Plan any profits
resulting from each breach.” And as equitable remedies,
Pover requests restitution, disgorgement, removal of
breaching fiduciaries, reformation of the Plan, and “such
other equitable or remedial relief as the Court deems
appropriate.” The requested relief can only be interpreted as
seeking recovery that would “inure[] to the benefit of the


2
  Capital Group argues, for the first time on appeal, that the parties
delegated questions of arbitrability to the arbitrator. Pover contends that
Capital Group forfeited this argument by not raising it in the district
court. While we have discretion to ignore a party’s forfeiture in certain
circumstances, see Ruiz v. Affinity Logistics Corp., 667 F.3d 1318, 1322
(9th Cir. 2012), we decline to do so here.
18        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


[P]lan as a whole.” See Russell, 473 U.S. at 140; see also
LaRue, 552 U.S. at 253–54.
    To determine whether the representative-action waiver
bars Pover’s claims, we must answer two questions:
(1) whether the waiver prevents Pover from bringing claims
on behalf of the Plan and (2) whether ERISA limits a
participant in a defined-contribution plan to seeking
monetary recovery related only to her individual account.
                               i.
    The Plan’s waiver provision prohibits current and former
plan participants, including Pover, from “bring[ing] any
dispute . . . on a class, collective or representative basis.”
Participants may bring disputes “on an individual basis
only.” Capital Group argues that “representative,” as used in
this provision, refers only to collective actions, not to actions
brought by a plan participant on behalf of the Plan. Capital
Group is correct that the Supreme Court has recognized that
the word “representative” has two different meanings: one
referring to a plaintiff’s statutory authority to sue on behalf
of an absent principal, and the other referring to a plaintiff’s
representation of a group of potential claimants. Viking River
Cruises, 596 U.S. at 648. We have held that § 502(a)(2)
claims asserting breach of fiduciary duty are always
“representative” in the first sense because the participant-
plaintiff “seeks recovery only for injury done to the plan.”
Munro, 896 F.3d at 1092–93 (citing LaRue, 552 U.S. at 256).
Consistent with the Supreme Court’s guidance, Munro
recognized that even though “the cause of action” under
§ 502(a)(2) “belong[s] to the individual plaintiff,” id. at 1093
(alteration in original) (quoting Comer v. Micor, Inc., 436
F.3d 1098, 1103 (9th Cir. 2006)), the relief afforded by
ERISA benefits the plan, id. at 1094; see also Hawkins v.
            POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.                  19


Cintas Corp., 32 F.4th 625, 632 (6th Cir. 2022) (following
Munro); Williams v. Shapiro, 161 F.4th 1313, 1322 (11th
Cir. 2025).
     Thus, the representative nature of Pover’s claim is clear.
The remaining question is simply how to interpret
“representative,” as used in the waiver. On this, our decision
in Platt controls. The arbitration provision there prohibited
“any purported class or representative proceeding.” Platt,
148 F.4th at 715. We held that language to be a
“representative action waiver” that prevented the plaintiff
“from bringing claims in a representative capacity on the
Plan’s behalf.” Id. at 721. There is no meaningful difference
between the prohibition against “any purported class or
representative proceeding” in Platt, and the prohibition
against any claim brought on a “class, collective or
representative basis” here. See id. at 715. If the former
prevents a plaintiff from pursuing those “remedies that were
specifically authorized by Congress,” in violation of the
effective-vindication doctrine, then so does the latter.3 See
id. at 721 (quoting Harrison v. Envision Mgmt. Holding, Inc.
Bd. of Dirs., 59 F.4th 1090, 1107 (10th Cir. 2023)).
                                    ii.
    Relying on LaRue, Capital Group argues that a defined-
contribution plan participant may nevertheless recover only
those monetary losses suffered by her individual account,

3
  We agree with our dissenting colleague that Platt does not “hold that
every arbitration agreement provision with somewhat comparable
language necessarily bars ERISA suits on behalf of a plan and is
therefore invalid under the effective-vindication doctrine.” Dissent at 31.
But we disagree that the difference between the words of the waiver
provisions at issue in Platt and here is sufficient to warrant a different
outcome.
20       POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


plus other appropriate equitable relief, which is all
recoverable in individual arbitration under the Plan’s
arbitration provisions. Capital Group misunderstands both
LaRue and ERISA.
    LaRue held that a participant in a defined-contribution
plan can bring a claim under § 502(a)(2) even when the
alleged fiduciary breach impacted only her individual
account. 552 U.S. at 256. But LaRue did not, as Capital
Group suggests, limit plaintiffs participating in defined-
contribution plans to recovering losses suffered only by their
individual accounts. Nor did LaRue “suggest that Section
502(a)(2) allows individualized relief for injuries that are
felt at the plan level.” Cedeno, 100 F.4th at 399. Just the
opposite. LaRue explained, consistent with § 409(a)’s plan-
oriented protections, that participants in defined-
contribution plans can bring a § 502(a)(2) claim to recover
for financial harm suffered plan-wide or by individual
accounts because both are plan injuries. See 552 U.S. at 255–
56; see also Munro, 896 F.3d at 1093; Cedeno, 100 F.4th at
399. What § 502(a)(2) does not allow is for a participant
seeking to recover “for individual injuries distinct from plan
injuries.” LaRue, 552 U.S. at 256.
     Capital Group’s interpretation of LaRue “rests on the
fiction” that because Pover seeks relief related to a defined-
contribution plan, § 502(a)(2) authorizes her to pursue only
her individualized pro rata share of monetary recovery owed
to the Plan while simultaneously obtaining equitable relief
that would affect the entire Plan. See Cedeno, 100 F.4th at
405. ERISA does not allow “a court or arbitral forum to slice
and dice individual plan participants’ and beneficiaries’
injuries resulting from mismanagement by fiduciaries in the
way” that Capital Group suggests. See id. Nor do § 409(a) or
§ 502(a)(2) differentiate between monetary and equitable
         POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.       21


relief in a way that can be reconciled with Capital Group’s
proposed approach. See id. As such, we join those of our
sister circuits that have rejected the reading of LaRue that
Capital Group advances. See, e.g., id. at 399, 404–06; Parker
v. Tenneco, Inc., 114 F.4th 786, 794–96 (6th Cir. 2024);
Williams, 161 F.4th at 1321–22.
     Additionally, while the difference between defined-
benefit and defined-contribution plans motivated LaRue’s
narrowing of Russell’s “entire plan” language, this
difference mattered because an account-level injury is only
possible in defined-contribution plans. See LaRue, 552 U.S.
at 255. Recall that in LaRue, the former employee claimed
that the plan fiduciary did not make certain investment
changes to the participant’s account. Id. at 251. Because a
defined-benefit plan does not allow for individualized
investment decisions, neither the breach alleged in LaRue
nor the consequential injury would have been possible. See
id. at 254–56. The analytical difference between Russell and
LaRue thus turned on the nature of the injury suffered on
account of the plan type, not on the plan type itself. See
LaRue, 552 U.S. at 254–56; Cedeno, 100 F.4th at 399.
    Here, Pover alleges fiduciary breaches that harmed the
Plan as a whole. For example, she alleges that Capital Group
retained a set of five mutual funds among its menu of
investment options despite knowing they were
underperforming because they generated millions in “fee
income” instead of replacing those funds “with any one of
the many prudent alternatives.” This alleged breach “falls
squarely within th[e] category” of duties that § 409(a)
imposes on plan fiduciaries. See LaRue, 552 U.S. at 253; see
also Varity Corp. v. Howe, 516 U.S. 489, 511–12 (1996)
(noting that § 409(a)’s fiduciary obligations “reflect[] a
special congressional concern about plan asset
22       POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


management” and “relate[] to the plan’s financial integrity”).
And under § 502(a)(2), Pover is entitled to bring an action
on behalf of the Plan to recover any resulting losses, as well
as “such other equitable or remedial relief as the court may
deem appropriate.” 29 U.S.C. §§ 1109(a), 1132(a)(2).
    For these reasons, we conclude that the Plan’s
representative-action waiver prevents Pover from enforcing
her substantive rights under ERISA because her breach-of-
fiduciary-duty claims can only be brought in a representative
capacity. Accordingly, the waiver is unenforceable under the
effective-vindication doctrine.
                      2. Severability
    Having concluded that the representative-action waiver
is unenforceable, our last question is whether this provision
may be severed from the Plan’s arbitration provision. See
Viking River Cruises, 596 U.S. at 662. This answer is easy.
The waiver provision expressly provides that if it “is found
to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
then any claim on a class, collective, or representative basis
shall be filed and adjudicated in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and not in arbitration.” Here, where there is no
illegality in the severance clause itself, we enforce the Plan
as written. See Mull, 41 F.4th at 1132. Pover’s breach-of-
fiduciary duty claims must be adjudicated in court rather
than arbitration.
     AFFIRMED.


VANDYKE, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

    The majority errs twice over in finding the arbitration
clause unenforceable. On the merits, I would hold that the
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.         23


bar on “representative” suits in the arbitration clause’s class-
action waiver does not refer to third-party suits on behalf of
the Plan. When read in context, that phrase refers to class
action or collective “representative” suits only, not principal-
agent representative suits like section 502(a)(2) ERISA
claims. That means it does not prevent Pover from bringing
claims on behalf of the Plan in arbitration and therefore does
not interfere with Pover’s substantive rights to bring
section 502(a)(2) ERISA claims.
    But we should not have even reached the issue of
arbitrability. The parties expressly agreed to allow an
arbitrator to decide threshold questions of arbitrability,
expressing their desire to keep courts out of this dispute.
Although Capital failed to make that argument before the
district court, its failure to do so falls squarely within our
exceptions to waiver. Consistent with the parties’ express
intent, I would have waived waiver and sent the question of
arbitrability to the arbitrator.
  I. The majority errs by holding the class-action
     waiver unenforceable.
    The majority explains (1) that in a section 502(a)(2)
ERISA claim, the plaintiff proceeds on behalf of the plan and
the remedies afforded by ERISA benefit the plan, Majority
Op. at 14; (2) that Pover “seeks to represent the Plan” and
pursues “plan-wide relief,” id. at 17; (3) that Pover seeks
“monetary recovery and equitable remedies … that would
necessarily affect the entire Plan,” id. at 17; and (4) that
Pover can bring a section 502(a)(2) claim to recover for both
“financial harm suffered plan-wide” and harm to her
“individual account[],” id. at 19, as well as “such other
equitable or remedial relief as the court may deem
24        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


appropriate,” id. at 22 (quoting 29 U.S.C. § 1109(a)). I agree
with the majority on all four points.
    The critical question here, though, is whether the Plan’s
ban on “class, collective or representative” suits prevents
Pover from bringing section 502(a)(2) claims on behalf of
the Plan. If it did, then the majority’s bottom-line conclusion
would be right: the arbitration agreement would prevent
Pover from exercising her statutory right to bring
section 502(a)(2) claims on behalf of the Plan in arbitration,
and we would need to allow this lawsuit to proceed.
    The majority devotes little attention to this crucial
question. In context, the most sensible reading of what the
arbitration agreement calls a “class action waiver” is that it
bars class or collective “representative” actions, not
“representative” suits on behalf of the Plan. Because there
is nothing in the arbitration agreement that prevents Pover
from arbitrating her claim on behalf of the Plan, we should
have enforced that agreement and directed the district court
to compel arbitration.
     A. The class-action waiver does not foreclose suits on
        behalf of the Plan.
    To understand the interpretive dispute here, it’s
important to grasp that not all “representative” suits are the
same. The Supreme Court conceives of two different
categories of “representative” suits in the arbitration context:
(1) collective-action suits where a putative plaintiff
“represents” a class of similarly situated individuals, and
(2) principal-agent suits where the putative plaintiff
“represents” a wholly different entity separate from the
plaintiff. See Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana, 596
U.S. 639, 648 (2022). Rule 23 class actions provide the most
obvious example of the first category, where a plaintiff sues
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.         25


not just on his own behalf but also on behalf of other,
similarly situated plaintiffs.
    But the second, “principal-agent” category encompasses
actions brought by an individual on behalf of a different
entity      altogether,    like    a     qui    tam      action,
shareholder-derivative suit, or private-attorney-general
action. See id. at 657. In these types of “representative”
suits, the plaintiff stands in the shoes of some third party,
effectively bringing claims on that third party’s behalf. See,
e.g., Stoner v. Santa Clara Cnty. Off. of Educ., 502 F.3d
1116, 1126 (9th Cir. 2007) (describing qui tam relators as
“representing the interests of the government and
prosecuting the action on its behalf”). The Supreme Court
has observed that, unlike collective action representative
suits that “adjudicate the individual claims of multiple absent
third parties,” “single-agent, single-principal representative
suits” are consistent with “the norm of bilateral arbitration
as [the Court’s] precedents conceive of it.” Viking River,
596 U.S. at 655, 657. Suits that are “representative” in the
principal-agent sense are thus fully compatible with a law
requiring that arbitration be “representative.” See id. at 656–
57.
    The parties do not dispute, and this court’s case law
recognizes, that section 502(a)(2) ERISA claims are
“representative” in the second, “principal-agent” sense. See
Munro v. Univ. of S. Cal., 896 F.3d 1088, 1092–93 (9th Cir.
2018). So the important question here is whether the term
“representative” in the Plan’s class-action waiver bars such
suits.
   A contextual reading of the Plan’s class-action waiver
confirms that when it refers to “representative” suits, it
means collective-action representative suits (like class
26        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


actions) rather than principal-agent representative suits on
behalf of the Plan. A phrase is given more precise content
by its association with neighboring words. See Fischer v.
United States, 603 U.S. 480, 487 (2024). And when a word
is placed at the end of a list, it “is typically ‘controlled and
defined by reference to the specific classes … that precede
it.’” Id. (internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting Sw.
Airlines Co. v. Saxon, 596 U.S. 450, 458 (2022)). A classic
example of this principle comes from Yates v. United States,
574 U.S. 528 (2015) (plurality opinion). There, the Supreme
Court considered whether the Sarbanes–Oxley Act’s
prohibition on tampering with any “tangible object” applied
to fish. Id. at 532. The dissenting justices concluded that
the phrase “tangible object” covered “any object capable of
being touched,” including a fish. Id. at 553 (Kagan, J.,
dissenting). But the Yates plurality and Justice Alito rightly
rejected that unnatural reading and looked to the full
prohibition against tampering with “any record, document,
or tangible object.” See id. at 544–45; id. at 549–50 (Alito,
J., concurring in judgment). In context, it was clear that
“tangible object” referred “not to any tangible object, but
specifically to the subset of tangible objects involving
records and documents.” Id. at 544; accord id. at 549–50
(Alito, J., concurring in judgment).
    Applying this interpretive approach to the Plan’s
prohibition on “class, collective, or representative” suits
shows that it bars collective-action representative suits only,
and not principal-agent suits on behalf of the Plan. Just like
the phrase “tangible object” in Yates, the class-action
waiver’s use of “representative” comes at the end of a
list—“class, collective or representative.” The words
surrounding “representative” in the waiver—“class” and
“collective”—confirm that the waiver refers to the types of
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.          27


representative suits brought on behalf of other similarly
situated individuals, not to principal-agent “representative”
suits where an individual effectively steps into the shoes of
the Plan. Accordingly, we should read “representative suits”
to refer not to any representative suits, but only to the subset
of representative suits that involve “class” or “collective”
suits.
    Pover responds that reading the class-action waiver this
way violates the canon against surplusage by making the
term “representative” “duplicative of the [preceding] terms
‘class’ and ‘collective.’”       But this argument is not
persuasive. For one thing, Pover’s reading wouldn’t solve
all the redundancy problems: if the waiver used
“representative” in the principal-agent sense, it still also uses
the words “class” and “collective,” which mean the same
thing and would also be redundant. It wouldn’t make sense
to apply the surplusage canon to one word in this list, but not
the others. As the Supreme Court recently explained, “[t]he
canon against surplusage can be meaningful when a
competing interpretation would avoid superfluity. But,
when both interpretations involve the same redundancy, the
canon against surplusage simply does not apply.” Bufkin v.
Collins, 604 U.S. 369, 387 (2025) (citations omitted); see
also Marx v. General Revenue Corp., 568 U.S. 371, 385
(2013) (declining to apply the canon against surplusage
when no interpretation would give effect to every
word). “[E]ven excellent writers do not always trim
every unnecessary word,” Mullin v. Al Otro Lado,
609 U.S. ----, ----, 2026 WL 1825741, at *8 (U.S. June 25,
2026), and it appears that the Plan’s drafters simply included
a three-word list to refer exhaustively to the same type of
collective representative action.
28       POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


    To be sure, there’s some overlap in the terms “class,
collective or representative,” but legal documents are often
overinclusive and use repetitive phrases to get the same point
across. This is “a perhaps regrettable but not uncommon sort
of lawyerly iteration.” Freeman v. Quicken Loans, Inc., 566
U.S. 624, 635 (2012). As Justice Scalia observed, the canon
against surplusage “cannot always be dispositive” because
“[s]ometimes drafters do repeat themselves and do include
words that add nothing of substance, either out of a flawed
sense of style or to engage in the ill-conceived but
lamentably common belt-and-suspenders approach.
Doublets and triplets abound in legalese: Execute and
perform—what satisfies one but not the other? Rest, residue,
and remainder—could a judge interpret these as referring to
three distinct things? Peace and quiet—when is peace not
quiet?” Antonin Scalia & Bryan Garner, Reading Law 176–
77 (2012). “Sometimes,” as here, “the better overall reading
of [a document] contains some redundancy.” Rimini Street,
Inc. v. Oracle USA, Inc., 586 U.S. 334, 346 (2019); accord
Freeman, 566 U.S. at 635 (adopting interpretation of statute
under which “portion, split, or percentage” in the same
clause “all mean the same thing”).
    Pover’s reading would also render an important part of
the Plan’s arbitration provision meaningless. The arbitration
provision specifies that it seeks “to make mandatory
individual arbitration apply … to the maximum extent
permissible under ERISA.” Interpreting “representative” as
banning section 502(a)(2) claims on behalf of a plan would
essentially foreclose arbitration of any ERISA claims
because—as the majority correctly observes—all
section 502(a)(2) claims are representative in the principal-
agent sense. So if this interpretation were right, the class-
action waiver would bar every representative action filed on
            POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.                  29


behalf of a plan. Such a reading puts the arbitration
provision and the class-action waiver in direct conflict—the
latter takes away most or all of what the former purports to
give. Since both provisions were added to the Plan at the
same time, it’s implausible this is what the drafters meant.
Reading the Plan’s class-action waiver as applying only to
collective actions where the plaintiff seeks to represent a
class of similarly situated individuals is most consistent with
the Plan’s express statement that arbitration “shall remain
required with the minimum change necessary to allow the
arbitration requirement to be permissible under ERISA.”1
    At bottom, the best reading of the Plan’s class-action
waiver is that it uses the word “representative” in its
collective-action sense, not its principal-agent sense. This
means that the waiver does not bar Pover from arbitrating
section 502(a)(2) claims on behalf of the Plan.
    B. The majority misapplies Platt.
    Eliding any analysis of the Plan’s language, the majority
simply asserts that, on the crucial interpretive question here:
“our decision in Platt controls.” Majority Op. at 19. This is
the loadbearing move in the majority opinion. But it is a
misstep.



1
  The Summary Plan Description (“SPD”) supports this understanding.
The SPD provides that plan participants may not “participate in a class
action involving the plan” and instead “must arbitrate any claim
involving the plan, including … a claim based on allegations of breach
of fiduciary responsibility”—in other words, section 502(a)(2) claims.
The SPD thus confirms that the arbitration provisions were intended to
allow arbitration of principal-agent representative claims on behalf of the
Plan, while foreclosing only class- or collective-action representative
claims.
30        POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


    In Platt v. Sodexo, S.A., a three-judge panel held that the
effective-vindication doctrine prevented us from compelling
arbitration because the arbitration clause in that case
prohibited claims brought “as a plaintiff or class member in
any purported class or representative proceeding.” 148 F.4th
709, 715, 721 (9th Cir. 2025) (emphasis added). The Platt
panel described that clause as “a representative action
waiver, which expressly preclude[d] Platt from bringing
claims in a representative capacity on the Plan’s behalf.” Id.
at 721. And, the Platt panel held, this waiver was
unenforceable because it “prevent[ed]” plan participants
from seeking the “plan-wide relief” that section 502(a)(2)
entitles them to seek. Id.
    It’s hard to tell exactly why the Platt panel was so
confident that a clause barring claims “as a plaintiff or class
member in any purported class or representative proceeding”
prevented individuals from bringing “plan-wide”
section 502(a)(2) claims. Cf. id. at 715, 721. Platt did not
acknowledge the different types of representative actions.
Nor did it inspect the language of the arbitration clause at
issue there to determine whether it barred principal-agent
“representative” actions on behalf of a third party—like qui
tam and shareholder-derivative suits—or merely barred
class-action-style “representative” actions. The Platt panel
opinion quotes the relevant waiver language only once, in
the “background” section, id. at 715, and simply
concludes—six pages later, without any analysis—that this
language is “a representative action waiver, which expressly
preclude[d] Platt from bringing claims in a representative
capacity on the Plan’s behalf,” id. at 721. Platt appears to
be nothing but a fact-bound decision with essentially no
analysis.
          POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.          31


    It’s also not clear why the majority is so confident that
Platt “controls” here. Majority Op. at 19. The language in
the Platt agreement—barring claims brought “as a plaintiff
or class member in any purported class or representative
proceeding”—is different from the language in the class-
action waiver here. Id. at 715 (emphasis added). I don’t read
Platt to hold that every arbitration agreement provision with
somewhat comparable language necessarily bars ERISA
suits on behalf of a plan and is therefore invalid under the
effective-vindication doctrine. And I would not extend
Platt’s cursory holding about the specific agreement in that
case—which, again, involved no analysis of the relevant
language or the different types of representative suits—to
this case, which involves a different Plan, with different
language.
    Platt is thus no bar to properly construing the actual
language before us. And, as I’ve explained, the best
interpretation of this Plan’s class-action waiver is that it does
not ban principal-agent representative suits on behalf of the
Plan. Because the waiver does not ban those suits, it does
not prevent Pover from vindicating her rights under ERISA,
and the severability clause does not take effect. Cf. Majority
Op. at 22.
  II. We should have applied well-established exceptions
      to waiver and allowed the arbitrator to decide the
      threshold issues of arbitrability.
    Although the majority errs in extending Platt’s holding
to misinterpret the class-action waiver, we did not even need
to reach that question. That’s because the Plan delegates
threshold arbitrability questions to the arbitrator. The
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) tasks courts with a limited
role when reviewing a motion to compel arbitration. See
32       POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


Rent–A–Ctr., W., Inc. v. Jackson, 561 U.S. 63, 67 (2010); 9
U.S.C. § 2. Because arbitration is a matter of contract,
“parties are generally free to structure their arbitration
agreements as they see fit.” Volt Info. Scis., Inc. v. Bd. of
Trs. of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489 U.S. 468, 479
(1989); Stolt-Nielsen S.A. v. AnimalFeeds Int’l Corp., 559
U.S. 662, 683 (2010); see also Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v.
Soler Chrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473 U.S. 614, 628 (1985).
The freedom to contract includes the freedom to keep courts
out of disputes altogether by dictating that threshold
arbitrability questions—such as whether an arbitration
agreement applies to a particular dispute and whether the
agreement is voided by operation of law—will be decided
by an arbitrator and not the courts. Henry Schein, Inc. v.
Archer & White Sales, Inc., 586 U.S. 63, 65 (2019); Rent–
A–Ctr., 561 U.S. at 68–70; First Options of Chicago, Inc. v.
Kaplan, 514 U.S. 938, 943 (1995). When parties “clearly
and unmistakably” demonstrate their intention to arbitrate
arbitrability, we must enforce that agreement. Brennan v.
Opus Bank, 796 F.3d 1125, 1130 (9th Cir. 2015) (quoting AT
& T Techs., Inc. v. Commc’ns Workers of Am., 475 U.S. 643,
649 (1986)).
    Here, the Plan Committee added an arbitration clause
and the class-action waiver to the Plan by formal amendment
on January 27, 2020. The clause applied broadly to “[a]ny
claim, controversy or alleged breach or violation of law that
arises out of or relates in any way to the Plan,” and was
binding on both current and former participants.
    The clause explicitly incorporated the American
Arbitration Association (“AAA”) Rules, stating: “[a]ny
claim, controversy or alleged breach or violation of the law
that arises out of or related in any way to the Plan … shall
be settled in binding arbitration administered by the
           POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.              33


American Arbitration Association under its Employment
Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures.” Under Ninth
Circuit precedent, this incorporation constitutes “clear and
unmistakable” evidence that the Plan delegated threshold
arbitrability questions to the arbitrator. Brennan, 796 F.3d
at 1130; Caremark, LLC v. Choctaw Nation, 104 F.4th 81,
87 n.5 (9th Cir. 2024). Threshold issues delegated to the
arbitrator include defenses like unconscionability and
effective vindication. Fli-Lo Falcon, LLC v. Amazon.com,
Inc., 97 F.4th 1190, 1194 (9th Cir. 2024). The Plan’s “clear
and unmistakable” delegation of threshold issues to an
arbitrator, deprives us of the authority to decide threshold
arbitrability questions and directs these questions to the
arbitrator.2
    The majority refuses to resolve the case on these clear
legal grounds because Capital failed to argue the issue before
the district court. Majority Op. at 17 n.2. But the
arbitrability of the Plan falls squarely within our recognized
waiver exceptions. We may, and often do, consider
arguments not raised below where the issue is purely legal,
the record is fully developed, and there is no prejudice.
Greger v. Barnhart, 464 F.3d 968, 973 (9th Cir. 2006);
Bolker v. Comm’r, 760 F.3d 1039, 1042 (9th Cir. 1985).


2
  The amendment complied with ERISA’s procedural requirements. The
Plan expressly authorizes the Committee to amend the Plan. The
amendment was disclosed in both the Summary Plan Description and
quarterly materials. The record establishes that the Plan followed its
own amendment procedures and satisfied ERISA’s disclosure
obligations. The Supreme Court has explained that employers may
freely amend ERISA plans if they follow the procedures outlined in the
plan’s documents. Curtiss-Wright Corp. v. Schoonejongen, 514 U.S. 73,
78 (1995). Pover does not dispute that the Committee had authority to
adopt the amendment.
34       POVER V. THE CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC.


Whether incorporation of AAA Rules in the Plan governs
delegation is a purely legal question. Brennan, 796 F.3d at
1130. The record is also complete since nobody disputes
that the language of the valid amendment to the Plan
explicitly incorporates the AAA Rules. And factual disputes
about Pover’s sophistication or receipt of amendments to the
Plan are irrelevant to whether the Plan agreed to arbitration
(which it clearly did). Pover is suing here on behalf of the
Plan—she cannot rely on her individual level of
sophistication in asking us to ignore the Plan’s delegation of
arbitrability questions to an arbitrator. The Plan is not
prejudiced by arbitrating according to the Plan’s own terms,
which the Plan itself approved. I see no reason to avoid
enforcing the arbitration clause’s delegation of arbitrability
questions to an arbitrator.
                           * * *
    We should not have even decided the issue of
arbitrability, but the majority nonetheless reaches that issue
to find that the class-action waiver bans more than class
actions. In doing so, the majority transplants the ipse-dixit
holding from Platt to hold in this case, again without
analysis, that the Plan language here bars Pover from
bringing claims on behalf of the Plan. That isn’t the best
reading of the Plan’s class-action waiver. I respectfully
dissent.
