          United States Court of Appeals
                     For the First Circuit


No. 25-1194

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,

                      Plaintiff, Appellee,

                               v.

                        RAIMUND GASTAUER,

                  Relief Defendant, Appellant,

 ROGER KNOX; WINTERCAP S.A.; MICHAEL T. GASTAUER; WB21 US INC.;
 SILVERTON SA INC.; WB21 NA INC.; C CAPITAL CORP.; WINTERCAP SA
                       INC.; B2 CAP INC.,

                           Defendants,

 SIMONE GASTAUER FOEHR; B21 LTD.; SHAMAL INTERNATIONAL FZE; WB21
                              DMCC,

                       Relief Defendants.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
               FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

         [Hon. Richard G. Stearns, U.S. District Judge]


                             Before

                   Aframe, Lynch, and Kayatta,
                         Circuit Judges.


     Johannah Cassel-Walker, with whom Jo-Ann Tamila Sagar, Dana
A. Raphael, and Hogan Lovells US LLP were on brief, for appellant.
     Theodore Weiman, Senior Appellate Counsel, Securities and
Exchange Commission, with whom Jeffrey B. Finnell, Acting General
Counsel, Securities and Exchange Commission, Tracey A. Hardin,
Solicitor, Securities and Exchange Commission, and Daniel
Staroselsky, Assistant General Counsel, Securities and Exchange
Commission, were on brief, for appellee.


                        August 19, 2026
                 KAYATTA, Circuit Judge.            The Securities and Exchange

Commission        (SEC)      named      appellant   Raimund     Gastauer,      a    German

national, as a so-called "relief defendant" in an enforcement

action      against       his    son,     Michael     Gastauer,     a   United     States

resident.1        In an earlier appeal from a judgment in favor of the

SEC,       Gastauer     contested         the    court's     exercise     of   personal

jurisdiction over him.             We ruled in his favor, foreclosing the SEC

from contending that personal jurisdiction had been established

over Gastauer as a relief defendant by imputing to him the forum

contacts of Michael as the defendant-in-interest.                       SEC v. Gastauer

(Gastauer I), 93 F.4th 1 (1st Cir. 2024).

                 On   remand,     the    SEC    sought     jurisdictional      discovery

concerning Gastauer's own contacts with the forum.                        In response,

Gastauer went to ground, filing no opposition to the request and

refusing         to   provide     any     discovery       thereafter     or    otherwise

participate in the post-remand litigation, even after the district

court      granted     the      SEC's    jurisdictional-discovery         request        and

warned      of    sanctions.            That    refusal    to   participate        in    the

proceedings did lead to sanctions, eventually resulting in the

reinstatement          of    summary       judgment       against   Gastauer       and    a

disgorgement award in the approximate amount of $3.3 million.




       1To avoid confusion, we refer to Raimund Gastauer -- the
named party -- as "Gastauer" and Michael Gastauer as "Michael."


                                            - 3 -
          Gastauer now resurfaces as appellant, challenging the

new judgment against him on several grounds.           As we will explain,

he has waited too long to voice his objections to the district

court's rulings and judgment.

                                     I.

                                     A.

          In    October     2018,     the    SEC     initiated       a    civil

securities-fraud    action         against   Michael        --      and    many

others -- alleging that he had participated in a scheme enabling

corporate insiders to sell stock while evading statutory and

regulatory   registration    and    disclosure     rules.    The     complaint

identified Gastauer as a relief defendant pursuant to 15 U.S.C.

§ 78u(d)(5), which allows the SEC to seek, and a federal court to

grant, "any equitable relief that may be appropriate or necessary

for the benefit of investors."2       In relevant part, the SEC alleged

that Michael caused two of his United States-based companies to

"transfer approximately $3.3 million to . . . Raimund Gastauer, or

accounts held for Raimund Gastauer's benefit."                   The complaint

sought disgorgement of those funds.3


     2  Relief defendants are "third-party non-wrongdoers" "who
are not accused of having violated the securities laws themselves,
but who are believed to be in possession of profits from such
violations." SEC v. Sanchez-Diaz, 88 F.4th 81, 87 (1st Cir. 2023)
(first quoting SEC v. Ahmed, 72 F.4th 379, 407 (2d Cir. 2023); and
then quoting SEC v. Smith, 710 F.3d 87, 90 n.2 (2d Cir. 2013)).
     3  Disgorgement  is   an  equitable   remedy  to   "recover
ill[-]gotten gains for the benefit of the victims of wrongdoing,


                                    - 4 -
             On March 28, 2019, Gastauer filed a motion to dismiss

for lack of personal jurisdiction pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil

Procedure 12(b)(2).          Gastauer averred that he is a resident and

citizen of Germany, has never lived in the United States, and has

visited the United States only about five times in his life, with

the most recent visit occurring in January 2009.                 The SEC opposed

Gastauer's      motion,    arguing       that:   (1) Gastauer    had    sufficient

contacts with the forum -- i.e., the United States -- to establish

the   court's    personal     jurisdiction       over   him;    and    (2) even    if

Gastauer did not himself have such contacts, the court could impute

the forum contacts of Michael and his companies to Gastauer as a

relief defendant to establish personal jurisdiction.                        In the

alternative,     the   SEC    requested      jurisdictional      discovery.       On

April 26, 2019, the district court entered an electronic order

denying Gastauer's motion to dismiss.               The court did not explain

its   ruling    or   address       the   SEC's   request   for    jurisdictional

discovery.

             The case proceeded on the merits, and, on February 22,

2022, the SEC moved for summary judgment.                  The district court

granted   the     motion      in    part,    holding    Gastauer       liable     for

disgorgement of $500,000 but finding a genuine dispute of fact


whether held by the original wrongdoer or by one who has received
the proceeds after the wrong."     Sanchez-Diaz, 88 F.4th at 88
(alteration in original) (quoting SEC v. Colello, 139 F.3d 674,
676 (9th Cir. 1998)).


                                         - 5 -
precluding summary judgment regarding the remaining approximately

$2.8 million     the   SEC   had    sought.       SEC    v.     Knox    (Knox I),

No. CV 18-12058, 2022 WL 1912877, at *5–6 (D. Mass. June 3, 2022).4

However, the court      also found that        Gastauer had committed a

discovery violation by failing to produce during discovery certain

evidence upon which he later relied in opposing summary judgment.

Id. at *6 n.3.    As a result, the court ordered Gastauer to sit for

a supplemental deposition and allowed the SEC to resubmit its

motion for summary judgment as to the remaining $2.8 million it

sought in disgorgement.       Id.

           The   SEC   subsequently     noticed    a    video    deposition   of

Gastauer   pursuant    to    the    Federal   Rules     of    Civil    Procedure.

Gastauer refused to sit for the deposition.                  The SEC then moved

for sanctions pursuant to Rule 37(d).           Gastauer opposed, arguing

again that the court lacked personal jurisdiction over him and

asserting that the SEC should be required to follow the discovery

protocols of the Hague Convention on the Taking of Evidence Abroad




     4  The district court in the same order granted summary
judgment to the SEC against six defendants and two other relief
defendants. Knox I, 2022 WL 1912877, at *1, *6. The court had
previously entered default judgment against Michael on March 23,
2022. The SEC has reached consent agreements with the remaining
defendants and one other relief defendant and has dismissed its
claim against another relief defendant. Following our remand in
Gastauer I, the SEC's disgorgement claim against Gastauer was the
only unresolved claim in the case.


                                     - 6 -
in Civil or Commercial Matters (the "Hague Convention"), rather

than the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.5

                On October 7, 2022, the district court allowed the SEC's

motion for sanctions.           SEC v. Knox (Knox II), No. CV 18-12058,

2022 WL 6156565, at *1 (D. Mass. Oct. 7, 2022).             The court first

reiterated its finding that it had personal jurisdiction over

Gastauer, explaining why for the first time:            Because Gastauer was

named only as a relief defendant, the court did not think that it

needed to independently establish personal jurisdiction over him

so long as it had personal jurisdiction over Michael as the real

defendant-in-interest.          Id. at *2.        The court then rejected

Gastauer's argument regarding the Hague Convention, ruling that

the SEC properly noticed the deposition under the Federal Rules of

Civil Procedure.            Id. at *2–3.       Finally, as a sanction for

Gastauer's "severe and repetitive" discovery violations, the court

entered full summary judgment against him on the merits.6              Id. at

*3.       The     court's   final   judgment    held   Gastauer   liable   for


      5 The Hague Convention "prescribes certain procedures by
which a judicial authority in one contracting state may request
evidence located in another contracting state." Société Nationale
Industrielle Aérospatiale v. U.S. Dist. Ct., 482 U.S. 522, 524
(1987); see also Hague Convention on the Taking of Evidence Abroad
in Civil or Commercial Matters, opened for signature Mar. 18, 1970,
T.I.A.S. No. 7444, 847 U.N.T.S. 231.
      6 The district court did not seek to rely on the sanctions
order to justify its assertion of personal jurisdiction over
Gastauer;   rather,   that  assertion  rested   solely  on   the
imputed-contacts theory. Knox II, 2022 WL 6156565, at *1–2.


                                      - 7 -
disgorgement       of     $3,315,305       (plus        prejudgment     interest      of

$604,839).

                                           B.

              Gastauer appealed the district court's decision to this

court.    In his opening brief on that first appeal, Gastauer argued

both   that    the      district       court's    imputed-contacts        theory     was

incorrect and that the district court lacked grounds for personal

jurisdiction based on his own contacts with the forum.                       Brief for

Appellant at 18–19, Gastauer I, 93 F.4th 1 (No. 22-1865).                         In its

response      brief,     the     SEC    did     not     respond    to   --   or     even

acknowledge -- Gastauer's argument that the district court lacked

personal jurisdiction over him based on his own contacts with the

United States.          Rather, its briefing focused, first, on arguing

that Gastauer had waived his objection to personal jurisdiction by

litigating the case on the merits, and, second, on defending the

district court's imputed-contacts theory.                  Brief of the Securities

& Exchange Commission at 2–3, Gastauer I, 93 F.4th 1 (No. 22-1865).

              On   February 9,         2024,     we     issued    our   decision     in

Gastauer I.        93    F.4th    1.      After       rejecting   the   SEC's     waiver

argument, we turned to "the heart of Gastauer's argument on appeal:

that the district court erred in finding that it had personal

jurisdiction over him merely because it had jurisdiction over the

real     defendants-in-interest           from    whom     he     had   received    the

wrongfully obtained funds."             Id. at 8.      In doing so, we noted that,


                                          - 8 -
"[o]n appeal, the SEC makes no claim that Gastauer has any actual

contacts with the United States," but instead "urges us to 'impute'

to Gastauer the contacts of his son."               Id. at 9.      In a footnote,

we added:

            While in the proceedings below the SEC argued
            in the alternative that Gastauer did satisfy
            the minimum contacts requirement -- by
            engaging in financial transactions routed
            through U.S.-based institutions -- the SEC has
            limited its argument on appeal to the
            imputation of jurisdictional contacts from the
            defendant-in-interest. We therefore consider
            only this latter argument in our analysis.

Id. at 9 n.4.        In the end, we rejected the district court's

imputed-contacts theory, ruling that "due process prohibits the

imputation of contacts to a relief defendant like Gastauer, whose

only involvement in the case is his receipt of a unilateral

transfer of money from a third party."               Id. at 12.      We therefore

"reversed"       "[t]he    district       court's       exercise    of     personal

jurisdiction" over Gastauer and "remanded to the district court

for further proceedings consistent with this opinion."                    Id. at 13

(emphases omitted).

                                          C.

            On     remand,   the        district    court      promptly     ordered

supplemental briefing on "whether Gastauer had sufficient minimum

contacts    with    the   forum    for    the   court    to    exercise    personal

jurisdiction over him."           To that end, the SEC filed a memorandum

asserting    that    Gastauer     was    subject    to   the    district    court's


                                        - 9 -
personal jurisdiction based on his own forum contacts and, in the

alternative, requesting jurisdictional discovery.            To support its

argument that Gastauer's known conduct was sufficient to establish

personal jurisdiction over him, the SEC argued that Gastauer had

facilitated two sets of wire transfers he received from U.S.-based

companies owned and controlled by Michael: (1) a $500,000 transfer

made in December 2017 -- labeled "loan agreement 12/17" -- from

WB21 US Inc. to Gastauer's personal bank account; and (2) a pair

of transfers made in February 2018 totaling over $2.8 million,

from C Capital Corp. to a law firm's client account in London,

which was then used to purchase a condominium in the name of an

entity allegedly controlled by Gastauer.

          Gastauer   filed   no    response    to   either    the   district

court's order or the SEC's memorandum.        Instead, roughly two weeks

after the SEC's filing, counsel for Gastauer emailed the SEC

stating that Gastauer did not plan to file any response and that

Gastauer had asked counsel to withdraw from the case.           In response

to the SEC's expressed concern that Gastauer would stonewall

further proceedings, Gastauer's now-former counsel relayed to the

SEC a message from Gastauer directing the SEC to contact his German

attorneys going forward.7



     7  Gastauer's U.S. counsel would not formally file a motion
to withdraw from the case until over two months later, on July 30,
2024, with the district court granting that motion on August 6.


                                  - 10 -
            In an electronic order dated May 16, 2024, the district

court found that "[o]n the current record, the connection between

the wires and Gastauer's in-forum conduct falls short of supporting

the SEC's claim of personal jurisdiction over Gastauer."              However,

the district court also found that the SEC had made out "a

colorable        case   for    jurisdiction"   and   "identifie[d]     factual

disputes that may show exercising jurisdiction over Gastauer is

proper."    Accordingly, the district court allowed "jurisdictional

discovery on the issue of Gastauer's involvement in financial

transactions in the United States involving Michael Gastauer, WB21

US Inc., and C Capital Corp."            The district court further ruled

that, in conducting such discovery, the SEC could rely on the

Federal Rules of Civil Procedure rather than the Hague Convention.

Finally, the district court warned that "Rule 37 sanctions for

failing     to     cooperate    are   applicable,    up   to   and   including

establishing as admitted jurisdictional facts."

            The SEC subsequently served on Gastauer five document

requests, five interrogatories, and a notice of deposition.                 In

response, Gastauer's German counsel sent a letter to the SEC -- but

not the court -- stating that Gastauer would only participate in

discovery served pursuant to the Hague Convention. Although German

counsel asked the SEC to make its letter "available" to the

district court -- and the SEC did so -- Gastauer filed no objection

with the court directly.              On July 15, in light of Gastauer's


                                      - 11 -
noncompliance with the district court's jurisdictional-discovery

order, the SEC filed a motion to compel or, in the alternative,

for sanctions.    Again, Gastauer filed no response.                When the

district court subsequently held a hearing on the SEC's motion,

neither Gastauer nor any counsel representing him appeared.

          On   August 6,    2024,    the     district   court,   pursuant    to

Rule 37(b),    allowed     the   SEC's       motion     for   sanctions     "by

establishing as admitted facts that would support the exercise of

personal jurisdiction over [Gastauer]."

          On October 24, 2024, the SEC renewed its motion for

summary judgment.        The district court, via electronic order,

reminded Gastauer that he had until November 14, 2024, to oppose

the SEC's summary-judgment motion.           The SEC emailed that order to

Gastauer's German counsel, who told the SEC -- but, again, not the

district court -- that Gastauer would not be accepting any "[c]ourt

documents . . . other than [those] received from Germany's central

authority under the Hague Convention on Service."

          On January 29, 2025, the district court allowed the

SEC's motion, reinstated its prior entry of summary judgment, and

held Gastauer liable for disgorgement of the entire $3,315,305

plus $1,347,326 in prejudgment interest.           SEC v. Knox (Knox III),

No. CV 18-12058, 2025 WL 330557, at *2–3 (D. Mass. Jan. 29, 2025).

This timely appeal followed.




                                    - 12 -
                               II.

          Gastauer makes three arguments challenging the district

court's jurisdictional-discovery order on appeal, but, as we will

discuss, he made none of those arguments to the district court on

remand.   Accordingly, under our circuit's somewhat inconsistent

precedent, those arguments are either forfeited and thus subject

to plain-error review, see, e.g., Nat'l Fed'n of the Blind v. The

Container Store, Inc., 904 F.3d 70, 86 (1st Cir. 2018),8 or waived

and therefore not subject to appellate review at all except as a

"matter   of   discretion"   under    "the   most   extraordinary

circumstances," Nat'l Ass'n of Soc. Workers v. Harwood, 69 F.3d

622, 627 (1st Cir. 1995) (citation omitted); accord Dahua Tech.

USA, Inc. v. Zhang, 138 F.4th 1, 10 (1st Cir. 2025).    Gastauer,

for his part, argues that we should, as a matter of discretion,

consider the merits of any arguments he failed to raise below,

though he does not label such arguments as "waived" or cite any

standard to guide that discretion.    For simplicity, we will use



     8  On plain-error review, a party must show that: "(1) an
error occurred (2) which was clear or obvious (3) affected [the
party's] substantial rights and (4) seriously impaired the
fairness, integrity, or public reputation of the judicial
proceedings." Nat'l Fed'n of the Blind, 904 F.3d at 86 (citation
modified).   This standard applies to forfeited arguments in
criminal cases and derives from Federal Rule of Criminal
Procedure 52(b), see, e.g., United States v. Johnson, 177 F.4th
67, 76–77 (1st Cir. 2026), but our circuit has also sometimes
applied plain-error review to forfeited arguments in civil cases,
see, e.g., Nat'l Fed'n of the Blind, 904 F.3d at 86.


                             - 13 -
the label "forfeited," though we need not determine the particular

governing   standard   because   Gastauer     has   failed    to   convince

us -- indeed has largely failed to argue -- that we should forgive

his silence below under any standard.         We take each argument in

turn.

                                   A.

            First, Gastauer contends that the district court erred

in   ordering   jurisdictional   discovery    because   the    mandate   of

Gastauer I required the district court to dismiss him from the

case.    This argument invokes the mandate rule, which "prevents

relitigation in the trial court of matters that were explicitly or

implicitly decided by an earlier appellate decision in the same

case."   United States v. Moran, 393 F.3d 1, 7 (1st Cir. 2004).

            Gastauer's failure to raise this mandate-rule theory

below dooms his argument on appeal.          At no point on remand did

Gastauer, his U.S. counsel (before withdrawal), or his German

counsel (even in communications with the SEC) suggest that our

ruling in Gastauer I required his dismissal from the case.                A

clearer example of forfeiture by silence would be difficult to

find.    See Tho Dinh Tran v. Alphonse Hotel Corp., 281 F.3d 23,

32–33 (2d Cir. 2002) (finding forfeiture of mandate-rule argument

where argument "was never presented to the district court before,

during, or after the bench trial"), overruled on other grounds by

Slayton v. Am. Express Co., 460 F.3d 215 (2d Cir. 2006).


                                 - 14 -
           Gastauer counters that the SEC itself first waived any

argument that it could establish personal jurisdiction over him on

remand    by   limiting   its   briefing   in   Gastauer I   to   the

imputed-contacts theory.   But Gastauer's waiver argument is itself

forfeited because, like his mandate-rule argument, he failed to

raise it on remand.   See United States v. Scott, 705 F.3d 410, 415

(9th Cir. 2012) ("A party who fails to assert a waiver argument

forfeits -- and therefore implicitly waives -- that argument.").9

In sum, Gastauer's complete abandonment of the post-remand case

renders his mandate-rule argument forfeited at the very least.

           Gastauer has not shown reason for us to ignore that

forfeiture and reach the merits of his argument, either. To start,

Gastauer makes no claim that he can satisfy plain-error review,

asserting only that the plain-error standard does not apply in

civil cases.10   He has thereby "definitively waive[d]" plain-error



     9  In any event, the SEC's position in Gastauer I waived only
its ability to assert that the record, as it existed at that time,
established personal jurisdiction based on Gastauer's own forum
contacts. The SEC did not waive its ability to seek jurisdictional
discovery to supplement that record. Indeed, the district court
had not ruled on the SEC's request for jurisdictional discovery at
the time of Gastauer I, so there was no jurisdictional-discovery
issue for the SEC to raise on appeal in the first instance. Cf.
Moran, 393 F.3d at 11 ("In general, available claims of error not
raised in an initial appeal may not be raised during subsequent
appeals in the same case.").
     10 Gastauer seems to assume that plain-error review is an
unwelcome burden rather than a reprieve for an argument not made
below.


                                - 15 -
review.    United States v. Benjamin-Hernandez, 49 F.4th 580, 584–85

(1st Cir. 2022).

            Instead,     Gastauer      points     to      United      States   v.

Cheveres-Morales    for    the   proposition      that     we   may   "raise   an

abridgement of the mandate rule sua sponte."              83 F.4th 34, 40 (1st

Cir. 2023).    He does not, however, explain why this is a case where

we should do so.       In Cheveres-Morales, we took up a mandate-rule

issue notwithstanding its waiver after a defendant, on remand from

a first appeal in which the government conceded sentencing error,

had been resentenced to a higher term of imprisonment based on

similar erroneous grounds.        Id. at 38–40.        In doing so, we noted

that "the equities strongly preponderate[d] in favor of review,"

citing our specific "institutional interest in protecting the

integrity of our mandate," as well as our more general interest in

"avoiding a miscarriage of justice" in light of Cheveres-Morales's

reasonable expectation that he would receive a reduced, rather

than enhanced, sentence on remand.           Id. at 42.    In contrast, here,

our institutional interest is not the same because -- though we

need not definitively rule on the merits -- we have serious doubts

that the district court did violate the mandate rule.                 Gastauer I

neither instructed the district court to dismiss for lack of

personal      jurisdiction,      nor    said     anything       to     foreclose

jurisdictional discovery.        Similarly, the risk of a miscarriage of

justice is lessened here where Gastauer's own actions -- namely,


                                    - 16 -
his withdrawal from the proceedings -- led to the district court's

exercise of jurisdiction.         All in all, this is simply not a case

in which the equities weigh in favor of reaching                      Gastauer's

forfeited mandate-rule argument.

                                        B.

            In the alternative, Gastauer argues the district court

erred in ordering jurisdictional discovery on the record before

it.    To warrant jurisdictional discovery, a party must show only

"a    colorable   claim    of   jurisdiction,"        i.e.,   "a   non-frivolous

dispute about facts that may yield a sufficient predicate for in

personam jurisdiction."         Motus, LLC v. CarData Consultants, Inc.,

23 F.4th 115, 128 (1st Cir. 2022) (first misquoting United States

v. Swiss Am. Bank, Ltd., 274 F.3d 610, 625–26 (1st Cir. 2001)).

Gastauer insists that the SEC failed to meet this threshold, so

the district court's order authorizing jurisdictional discovery

was error.

            Again, the problem for Gastauer is that he did not object

to    jurisdictional      discovery    on    remand    from   Gastauer I.     In

Gastauer's view, he preserved this issue for appeal because he

raised the defense of personal jurisdiction from the very start of

the case and has reiterated that defense throughout -- at least

when he has chosen to communicate with the courts.                  However, an

objection to personal jurisdiction is not the same as an objection

to jurisdictional discovery, given the lower threshold for the


                                      - 17 -
latter.    See In re Auto. Refinishing Paint Antitrust Litig., 358

F.3d 288, 291–92, 292 n.3 (3d Cir. 2004) (explaining appellants

objected to personal jurisdiction but not court's finding that

jurisdictional discovery standard was met).    Simply put, Gastauer

did not have the option of both contesting personal jurisdiction

and blocking reasonable jurisdictional discovery.    See, e.g., Ins.

Corp. of Ir. v. Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee, 456 U.S. 694,

706, 709 (1982).

            While Gastauer tries to frame this as an appeal not from

a jurisdictional-discovery order but from the district court's

failure to dismiss him for lack of personal jurisdiction, that is

simply not the case.    Gastauer never renewed his motion to dismiss

on remand or even argued to the district court that his original

motion to dismiss also applied to the remand proceedings, and the

district court therefore never ruled on any such motion post

remand.    Rather, the district court sanctioned Gastauer by deeming

admitted facts sufficient to establish personal jurisdiction -- a

sanction    Rule 37    expressly    permits.   See   Fed.   R.   Civ.

P. 37(b)(2)(A)(i); Ins. Corp. of Ir., 456 U.S. at 704–06.11


     11 Gastauer separately insists that the district court should
have considered lesser sanctions, including finding as established
only the facts the SEC was seeking to establish through
jurisdictional discovery.    Of course, Gastauer never made this
argument below in response to either the court's warning of
sanctions in its jurisdictional-discovery order or the SEC's
subsequent motion for sanctions. In any event, the court did what
Gastauer argues for: The SEC sought facts to establish Gastauer's


                                   - 18 -
          Finally, German counsel's communications with the SEC

did not preserve Gastauer's objection to jurisdictional discovery,

either.   Those communications never stated that Gastauer opposed

jurisdictional discovery generally, only that he opposed it if not

undertaken pursuant to the Hague Convention.    Besides, while the

SEC later brought these communications to the district court's

attention, Gastauer needed to present his argument to the district

court directly to preserve the issue for appeal. See United States

v. Slade, 980 F.2d 27, 30 (1st Cir. 1992) ("It is a bedrock rule

that when a party has not presented an argument to the district

court, [that party] may not unveil it in the court of appeals."

(emphasis added)).12

          Having made no timely complaint to the district court,

Gastauer forfeited his objection to the merits of the court's




contacts with the United States, and the court took such contacts
as established.   See Ins. Corp. of Ir., 456 U.S. at 709 ("The
sanction took as established the facts -- contacts with [the
forum] -- that [the plaintiff] was seeking to establish through
discovery.    That a particular legal consequence -- personal
jurisdiction of the court over the defendants -- follows from this,
does not in any way affect the appropriateness of the sanction.").
     12  Gastauer would not have been waiving his jurisdictional
challenge by filing an objection to jurisdictional discovery
directly with the district court or otherwise raising whatever
claims he had to the court. See Prac. Concepts, Inc. v. Republic
of Bolivia, 811 F.2d 1543, 1547 (D.C. Cir. 1987) (Ginsburg, J.)
(explaining that defendant who objects to personal jurisdiction
"may defend on the merits in the district court without losing his
right to press on direct review the jurisdictional objection, along
with objections on the merits").


                              - 19 -
jurisdictional-discovery       order.         Further,    Gastauer     makes    no

argument   that    his     belated     objection       either   satisfies      the

plain-error    standard      or      else     presents    the      extraordinary

circumstances necessary for us to exercise our discretion to

forgive his forfeiture.       Accordingly, he is not entitled to any

further review of this forfeited objection.

                                       C.

           Lastly, Gastauer asserts that, even if jurisdictional

discovery was proper, the district court erred by allowing such

discovery to proceed under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,

rather than the Hague Convention.

           Gastauer did raise a Hague Convention argument to the

district court prior to our decision in Gastauer I, but that did

not preserve the issue now before us.                  Gastauer's prior Hague

Convention argument came in response to merits discovery.                       In

contrast, the discovery requested after Gastauer I concerned only

Gastauer's jurisdictional contacts with the United States.                See In

re Auto. Refinishing, 358 F.3d at 303 (contrasting "'merits'

discovery, which [one] can expect to be more comprehensive or

burdensome" with "more limited and less intrusive jurisdictional

discovery").     The only Hague Convention-based objection Gastauer

made to jurisdictional discovery came in his German counsel's

communications      with      the      SEC,      but      again,     Gastauer's

objections -- expressed only to the SEC -- were not preserved


                                     - 20 -
simply because opposing counsel had the courtesy to pass them on

to the district court.              Gastauer needed to present his Hague

Convention-based objection to jurisdictional discovery directly to

the district court to preserve the issue for appeal.                        See, e.g.,

Dynamic Image Techs., Inc. v. United States, 221 F.3d 34, 38 (1st

Cir.   2000)       (holding    that     plaintiffs     "raise[d]       [a    discovery

argument] too late" where they failed to oppose government's

discovery motion or develop their argument before the district

court).       To    rule    otherwise    would    open   the    door    to    disputes

regarding what exactly each party has or has not filed with the

court.

              Even if we were to construe Gastauer's prior Hague

Convention-based          objection     to    merits   discovery       as    initially

preserving          his       present        objection     to      jurisdictional

discovery -- which we do not -- that objection was forfeited (or

even waived) by Gastauer's subsequent actions.                  The district court

rejected Gastauer's Hague Convention argument in the order that

directly preceded Gastauer I.                Knox II, 2022 WL 6156565, at *3.

The issue was therefore ripe for review in Gastauer I, yet Gastauer

never pressed the issue in that appeal.                   The district court's

decision on the Hague Convention then arguably became the law of

the    case    for        future,   similar      discovery      attempts,       likely

foreclosing further review.              See United States v. Wallace, 573

F.3d 82, 90 (1st Cir. 2009) ("When [appellant] failed to challenge


                                        - 21 -
the obstruction of justice enhancement the first time around [on

appeal], it became the law of the case."); Unión Internacional

UAW, Loc. 2415 v. Bacardí Corp., 8 F.4th 44, 53 (1st Cir. 2021)

("[A] legal decision made at one stage of a civil or criminal case,

unchallenged in a subsequent appeal despite the existence of ample

opportunity to do so, becomes the law of the case for future stages

of the same litigation." (quoting United States v. Bell, 988 F.2d

247, 250 (1st Cir. 1993))).

          Gastauer   thus     failed     to     preserve     his     Hague

Convention-based objection for this appeal.           And, once more, he

develops no independent argument whatsoever that this objection

either   satisfies   plain-error       review    or     implicates     the

extraordinary circumstances necessary for us to reach the merits.

We need go no further.

                                III.

          Finding no reason to allow Gastauer to take his leave of

the district court proceedings and then raise on appeal objections

to those proceedings that he could have made below, we affirm the

district court's judgment.




                               - 22 -
