                  FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

In re: KEVAN HARRY GILMAN,                  No. 24-2249
Debtor,
                                             D.C. No.
                                          2:22-cv-04450-
                                              MWF
TAMMY R. PHILLIPS; TAMMY R.
PHILLIPS, APLC,

             Plaintiffs - Appellants,        OPINION

 v.

AMY L. GOLDMAN,

             Defendant - Appellee.

       Appeal from the United States District Court
           for the Central District of California
      Michael W. Fitzgerald, District Judge, Presiding

         Argued and Submitted January 13, 2026
                  Pasadena, California

                     Filed May 7, 2026

 Before: Mary H. Murguia, Chief Judge, and Ronald M.
 Gould, Johnnie B. Rawlinson, Jay S. Bybee, Morgan B.
Christen, Jacqueline H. Nguyen, John B. Owens, Daniel A.
2                      PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


    Bress, Danielle J. Forrest, Anthony D. Johnstone and Ana
                     de Alba, Circuit Judges.

                   Opinion by Judge Nguyen


                          SUMMARY*


                           Bankruptcy

    The en banc court (1) reversed the district court’s
decision upholding the bankruptcy court’s dismissal of an
adversary proceeding based on a Chapter 7 bankruptcy
trustee’s immunity from allegations that she failed to
preserve and safeguard estate assets, and (2) remanded for
the bankruptcy court to consider the trustee’s remaining
arguments for dismissal.
    The en banc court held that it had jurisdiction to review
the district court’s order affirming in part and reversing in
part the bankruptcy court’s dismissal and remanding for
further proceedings. In light of plaintiff’s counsel’s
representation that they were standing on the complaint
rather than seeking leave to amend in the bankruptcy court,
the en banc court concluded that the district court’s order
was effectively final, and the en banc court therefore had
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 158(d)(1).
   The en banc court held that a bankruptcy trustee sued in
her personal capacity may be entitled to quasi-judicial


*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                      PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                     3


immunity, which provides trustees absolute immunity from
liability for functions involving the exercise of discretionary
judgment that are essential to the authoritative adjudication
of private rights to the bankruptcy estate.
    The en banc court held that a bankruptcy trustee also may
be entitled to derived judicial immunity, under which a
trustee will not be held liable when (1) her acts were within
the scope of her authority; (2) the debtor, creditors, and other
interested parties had notice of the proposed acts; (3) the
trustee candidly disclosed the proposed acts to the
bankruptcy court; and (4) the bankruptcy court approved the
acts.
    The en banc court held that the trustee was not entitled
to quasi-judicial immunity because the complaint’s
allegations related to the trustee’s functions of gathering
estate property, investigating the debtor’s finances, and
operating the debtor’s business on a short-term basis. These
functions did not determine how assets would be divided
among creditors, but rather called upon the trustee to act as
a property manager. The en banc court also concluded that,
on the current record, the trustee was not entitled to derived
judicial immunity.

                         COUNSEL

Charles Q. Jakob (argued), Law Office of Charles Q. Jakob,
Carmichael, California, for Plaintiffs-Appellants.
Lann G. McIntyre (argued), Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard &
Smith LLP, San Diego, California; Maria L. Garcia, Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP, Los Angeles, California;
Michael Wilk, Kaufman Dolowich LLP, Los Angeles,
California; for Defendant-Appellee.
4                    PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


Adam B. Nach and Helen Santilli, Nach Rodgers Hilkert &
Santilli, Phoenix, Arizona; Martin P. Sheehan, Sheehan &
Associates PLLC, Wheeling, West Virginia; for Amicus
Curiae National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees.

                         OPINION

NGUYEN, Circuit Judge:

    Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustees enjoy certain immunities
with respect to their role in administering a debtor’s estate.
Today we clarify the nature and limits of those immunities.
The district court and bankruptcy court applied the wrong
legal test when evaluating Trustee Amy Goldman’s
immunity from allegations that she failed to preserve and
safeguard estate assets. Because the pleadings do not
establish that Goldman is entitled to immunity, we reverse
and remand.
                              I.
                             A.
    This suit arises out of the long-standing efforts by
Tammy R. Phillips and her eponymous law firm
(collectively, “Phillips”) to collect on their pre-petition
judgments against debtor Kevan Harry Gilman. In February
2011, Gilman filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter
7, and the U.S. Trustee appointed Goldman to oversee the
case. See 11 U.S.C. § 701(a)(1).
   Gilman disclosed an interest in two Los Angeles
properties that he owned with his wife—their residence on
                         PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                           5


Varna Avenue in Van Nuys,1 in which Gilman claimed a
homestead exemption, and a commercial property on Corbin
Avenue in Northridge. In June 2011, the trustee reported
that there was “no property available for distribution from
the estate over and above that exempted by law” and
requested to be discharged from her duties as trustee because
the estate had been fully administered. 2 See 11 U.S.C.
§ 727; Fed. R. Bankr. P. 2002(e).
    Phillips raised several objections to Gilman’s claimed
homestead exemption. After protracted litigation on the
issue in the main bankruptcy case, including two appeals to
this court, see generally In re Gilman, 887 F.3d 956 (9th Cir.
2018), we affirmed the bankruptcy court’s decision
overruling most of the objections, In re Feinstein, No.
20-56279, 2023 U.S. App. LEXIS 1136, 2023 WL 195513
(9th Cir. Jan. 17, 2023).
    Meanwhile, in November 2020, Phillips moved the
bankruptcy court to direct Goldman to administer the estate
or, alternatively, remove her as trustee. Phillips argued that
the properties were valued “well beyond” the amount of
Gilman’s secured debt and that Goldman “did not adequately
explore” malpractice claims that Gilman may have had
against his counsel.        With the bankruptcy court’s


1
 Gilman’s wife moved out of the home in August 2012, and a divorce
decree was entered in March 2021.
2
  At the time, there was a pending adversary proceeding in which Phillips
sought to have Gilman’s debts declared nondischargeable. In 2016, the
bankruptcy court denied Gilman a discharge, finding that he had
removed and concealed estate property “with the intent to hinder and
delay creditors.” Phillips v. Gilman, No. 1:11-ap-01389, 2016 WL
8115713, at *10 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. Nov. 3, 2016); see 11 U.S.C.
§ 727(a)(2).
6                    PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


authorization, Goldman hired general bankruptcy counsel to
assess the value of the secured claims that Phillips asserted
and to defend herself against Phillips’s charge of an
improper investigation. Goldman then withdrew the no-
asset report and notified the bankruptcy court that assets
would be administered, and the court set a deadline for
creditor claims.
    Following Gilman’s death in May 2021, Goldman filed
notice of her intent to abandon the real properties, as well as
Gilman’s potential malpractice claim against his counsel,
because she had determined that they had inconsequential
value and would be burdensome to the bankruptcy estate.
See 11 U.S.C. § 554(a). In her view, the properties had no
realizable equity because the amount of secured debts,
estimated costs of sale, potential adverse tax consequences,
and estimated administrative fees exceeded the properties’
anticipated values. She represented that Gilman, having
released his legal malpractice claim in exchange for free
representation in related matters, had no damages, and that
the statute of limitations had run prior to the petition date.
After a hearing, the bankruptcy court overruled Phillips’s
objections and entered orders abandoning the properties at
issue. See Fed. R. Bankr. P. 6007(a)(2).
    Goldman then filed a second no-asset report and again
requested to be discharged from her duties as trustee. In
response to Phillips’s objections, Goldman withdrew the
report and successfully demanded turnover of funds from
Gilman’s ex-wife. Gilman’s bankruptcy case remains
pending notwithstanding his death. See Fed. R. Bankr. P.
1016(a).
                          PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                              7


                                     B.
    In February 2022, Phillips commenced this adversary
proceeding against Goldman. Phillips claims that Goldman
was grossly negligent in managing the real properties, in
breach of her fiduciary duties to the creditors, by allowing
waste and failing to collect rent.3
    Phillips alleges that Goldman knew Gilman was
deferring maintenance on the properties, which physically
deteriorated over the years due to his neglect, and that she
failed to safeguard them. Goldman allegedly learned from
case filings and letters sent to her by Phillips’s counsel that
Gilman and his wife were collecting rent from the properties
and not paying real estate taxes or homeowners association
dues. However, she allegedly made no attempt to obtain a
turnover of the rent payments for use in maintaining the
properties or paying unsecured creditor claims. Phillips
asserts that the lack of maintenance caused the property
values to appreciate more slowly than the market as a whole,
losing a total of $200,000 to $300,000 in value during the 11
years they had then been in the bankruptcy estate.
    Goldman moved to dismiss the complaint on several
grounds, and the bankruptcy court granted the motion, with
prejudice, on two: quasi-judicial immunity and the statute of




3
  Phillips also asserts a claim against Goldman and her sureties to collect
on the faithful performance bond. See 11 U.S.C. § 322 (requiring
trustees to file a bond “conditioned on the faithful performance of [their]
official duties”); Fed. R. Bankr. P. 2010(b) (authorizing proceeding on
the bond by the injured party). Although neither the bankruptcy court
nor the district court appears to have explicitly addressed this claim, it is
derivative of Phillips’s claims for breach of fiduciary duty.
8                        PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


limitations.4 In the bankruptcy court’s view, Goldman has
immunity if her discretionary decisions to act or refrain from
acting amounted only to negligence—as opposed to gross
negligence. The court concluded that Phillips alleges only
ordinary negligence.
    As for the time bar, the bankruptcy court found that
Phillips had notice that Goldman was not actively managing
the properties in 2011, when Goldman filed the first no-asset
report. In addition, the court observed, Phillips allegedly
notified Goldman in a 2016 letter about rent payments that
had not been turned over to the estate, yet Phillips waited
more than four years—the limitations period—to file suit.
See Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 343; FDIC v. McSweeney, 976
F.2d 532, 535–36 (9th Cir. 1992).
    Phillips appealed the bankruptcy court’s judgment to the
district court, which affirmed in part, reversed in part, and
remanded. The district court reversed the bankruptcy court’s
ruling that the claims were time-barred. Observing that
nothing in the complaint establishes Phillips learned of the
properties’ disrepair prior to 2019, when she saw Gilman’s
reference to “deferred maintenance,” the district court
concluded that Phillips could claim damages from
Goldman’s failure to collect rents within four years of filing
suit under a continuous accrual theory.5
    The district court affirmed the bankruptcy court’s ruling
that Goldman is entitled to quasi-judicial immunity based on

4
  In addition, Goldman asserted that the business judgment rule
precludes liability, the asserted damages are speculative, and Phillips’s
failure to mitigate any damages bars recovery because a trustee has no
obligation to “babysit” creditors’ collateral.
5
  Goldman does not challenge the district court’s application of this
theory, and we therefore do not address it.
                       PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                         9


the current pleading. The district court agreed with the
bankruptcy court that immunity extends to a trustee’s acts of
ordinary negligence if they are “closely related to the judicial
process” and involve the exercise of judgment, Burton v.
Infinity Cap. Mgmt., 862 F.3d 740, 748 (9th Cir. 2017), but
not to “actions that are deemed to be gross negligence or for
acts of intentional wrongdoing,” In re Cont’l Coin Corp.,
380 B.R. 1, 15 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. 2007). And while it also
agreed with the bankruptcy court that Phillips failed to allege
conduct exceeding ordinary negligence, the district court
remanded the case for a determination of whether
amendment would be futile.
    Phillips appealed the district court’s order. Following
argument before a three-judge panel of this court, a majority
of non-recused active judges voted to hear the case en banc.
See Phillips v. Goldman, 158 F.4th 1082 (9th Cir. 2025).
                                II.
    Before turning to the merits, we must first address
whether we have jurisdiction to review the district court’s
order. See Herklotz v. Parkinson, 848 F.3d 894, 897 (9th
Cir. 2017) (holding that we have an “independent
obligation” to assess our jurisdiction). Unlike the district
court’s power of review in bankruptcy cases, which extends
to interlocutory decisions, see 28 U.S.C. § 158(a)(3), our
jurisdiction is normally limited to “final” decisions of the
district court and bankruptcy appellate panel, id.
§ 158(d)(1).6


6
 We can review interlocutory decisions only upon certification by the
district court or bankruptcy appellate panel, as the case may be, the
bankruptcy court, or the parties acting jointly. See 28 U.S.C.
§ 158(d)(2).
10                    PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


     Although the rules of finality “are different in
bankruptcy,” Bullard v. Blue Hills Bank, 575 U.S. 496, 501
(2015), they are not entirely different. Bankruptcy cases
involve “an aggregation of individual controversies,” id.
(quoting 1 Collier on Bankruptcy ¶ 5.08[1][b] (16th ed.
2014)), and the finality analysis differs “only to the extent a
‘final’ order under § 158 may terminate a discrete
proceeding in bankruptcy, rather than the entire bankruptcy
case,” In re Gugliuzza, 852 F.3d 884, 898 (9th Cir. 2017). A
bankruptcy court’s decision that “finally determines the
discrete issue to which it is addressed” will be final for
appeal purposes if it “seriously affects substantive rights,”
id. at 894 (quoting In re Perl, 811 F.3d 1120, 1126 (9th Cir.
2016)), or, put differently, if it alters “the legal relationships
among the parties,” id. (quoting Bullard, 575 U.S. at 506).
   When the ruling involves a “contested matter”—the
“undefined catchall for . . . issues the parties dispute” by
motion in the main bankruptcy case—determining finality
can be challenging. Bullard, 575 U.S. at 505; see Fed. R.
Bankr. P. 9014(a). “[T]he list of contested matters is
‘endless’ and covers all sorts of minor disagreements.”
Bullard, 575 U.S. at 505 (quoting 10 Collier ¶ 9014.01).
    For appeals taken from an adversary proceeding,
however, finality is often easier to assess. Adversary
proceedings are “essentially full civil lawsuits carried out
under the umbrella of the bankruptcy case,” id., and
“many . . . would exist as stand-alone lawsuits but for the
bankrupt status of the debtor,” id. at 501. As with other
stand-alone lawsuits, an order normally must “entirely
terminat[e] an adversary proceeding” to be final. Gugliuzza,
852 F.3d at 894 (quoting Four Seas Ctr., Ltd. v. Davres, Inc.,
754 F.2d 1416, 1418 (9th Cir. 1985)).
                     PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                     11


    A district court’s order affirming or reversing a final
decision by the bankruptcy court is itself final and
immediately appealable under § 158(d)(1). Id. Things
become murkier when, as here, the district court remands the
case to the bankruptcy court for further proceedings. To
determine whether such an order is final and appealable, we
apply “a four-factor test, considering ‘(1) the need to avoid
piecemeal litigation; (2) judicial efficiency; (3) the systemic
interest in preserving the bankruptcy court’s role as the
finder of fact; and (4) whether delaying review would cause
either party irreparable harm.’” Id. (quoting Perl, 811 F.3d
at 1126).
    Applying the four-factor test here, the district court’s
remand order does not appear final. The order “did not end
the discrete proceeding before it,” id. at 898, because Phillips
potentially could prevail on an amended complaint. Cf.
Bullard, 575 U.S. at 503 (holding that an order denying plan
confirmation is not final merely because it “rule[s] out the
specific arrangement of relief embodied in a particular plan,”
since other plans can be proposed and confirmed). Thus,
“the district court’s decision did not ‘alter the status quo’ or
‘fix the rights and obligations of the parties.’” Gugliuzza,
852 F.3d at 898 (brackets omitted) (quoting Bullard, 575
U.S. at 502). Because leave to amend a pleading deficiency
should be freely granted, see Fed. R. Civ. P. 15(a)(2); Fed.
R. Bankr. P. 7015, “the risk of piecemeal litigation is
significant,” Gugliuzza, 852 F.3d at 899 (quoting In re
Landmark Fence Co., 801 F.3d 1099, 1103 (9th Cir. 2015)).
Entertaining an appeal when the pleadings are unsettled risks
“multiple ‘climbs up the appellate ladder and slides down the
chute’ and the ‘delays and inefficiencies’ that result.” Id. at
894 (brackets omitted) (quoting Bullard, 575 U.S. at 504).
12                   PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


    Granted, “the issues on appeal in this case are purely
legal in nature, and our disposition of these issues could aid
the bankruptcy court” by clarifying a trustee’s entitlement to
immunity, but this rationale for exercising jurisdiction “is
inconsistent with Bullard.” Id. at 898, 899. We do not
“evaluate whether the appeal of a specific ruling would be
efficient in a particular case,” which would require us to
improperly “peek at the merits in order to determine whether
we have jurisdiction.” Id. at 897. Finally, at this stage, “the
bankruptcy court’s fact-finding role is best preserved by
allowing the remand to run its course,” id. at 899, because
the bankruptcy court could allow the case to proceed on an
amended complaint. And “it is doubtful that an interlocutory
district court order can cause irreparable harm in light of the
‘parties’ rights and obligations remaining unsettled,’ and the
availability of mechanisms for interlocutory review.” Id.
(brackets and citation omitted) (quoting Bullard, 575 U.S. at
503). In sum, the four-factor test weighs in favor of treating
the district court’s remand order as interlocutory.
    At argument, however, Phillips’s counsel represented
that Phillips is standing on the complaint rather than seeking
leave to amend in the bankruptcy court. As a general matter,
“the plaintiff has the right to stand on the pleading” if she
believes that it satisfies Rule 8(a). Edwards v. Marin Park,
Inc., 356 F.3d 1058, 1065 (9th Cir. 2004). While this may
require the trial court to issue a judgment dismissing the
complaint with prejudice, see WMX Techs., Inc. v. Miller,
104 F.3d 1133, 1136 (9th Cir. 1997) (en banc), the
bankruptcy court has already done so here.
    When “all that remains to do on remand is a purely
mechanical . . . task” that will not “affect the issue that the
disappointed party wants to raise on appeal,” we deem the
district court’s decision to be final for purposes of appellate
                     PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                    13


jurisdiction. In re Saxman, 325 F.3d 1168, 1172 (9th Cir.
2003) (quoting In re Fox, 762 F.2d 54, 55 (7th Cir. 1985)).
In light of counsel’s representation that Phillips will not
amend the complaint, there is nothing left to be done but for
the bankruptcy court to enter another judgment dismissing
the complaint with prejudice and the district court to affirm.
Under these circumstances, we conclude that the district
court’s order is effectively final, and we therefore have
jurisdiction under § 158(d)(1).
                             III.
                              A.
    A party aggrieved by a bankruptcy trustee’s actions can
seek redress against the trustee in her official or personal
capacity. In official capacity suits, where the trustee is sued
as the representative of the bankruptcy estate, see 11 U.S.C.
§ 323, any award will be paid from the estate. See Barton v.
Barbour, 104 U.S. 126, 128 (1881); In re Crown Vantage,
Inc., 421 F.3d 963, 970–71 (9th Cir. 2005). In personal
capacity suits, absent a basis for immunity, the trustee is
personally liable for her intentional and negligent torts. See
Mosser v. Darrow, 341 U.S. 267, 274 (1951); In re Cochise
Coll. Park, Inc., 703 F.2d 1339, 1356–57 (9th Cir. 1983).
    Subjecting the trustee to the risk of personal liability
promotes honesty and efficiency in the administration of a
bankruptcy estate. See Mosser, 341 U.S. at 274 (“The most
effective sanction for good administration is personal
liability for the consequences of forbidden acts . . . .”). At
the same time, to ensure that would-be trustees are not
discouraged from serving in this publicly beneficial role,
courts provide “ways by which a trustee may effectively
protect [her]self against personal liability.” Id.
14                      PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


     Under our case law, bankruptcy trustees may be entitled
to immunity if they are acting like judges or for judges. The
first doctrine, known as “quasi-judicial immunity,” provides
trustees absolute immunity from liability for “functions
involving the exercise of discretionary judgment” that are
“essential to the authoritative adjudication of private rights
to the bankruptcy estate.” In re Castillo, 297 F.3d 940, 949,
951 (9th Cir. 2002). The second doctrine, which is referred
to as “derived judicial immunity” or simply “derived
immunity,” provides protection in discrete circumstances. A
trustee will not be held liable when (1) her acts were within
the scope of her authority; (2) the debtor, creditors, and other
interested parties had notice of the proposed acts; (3) the
trustee candidly disclosed the proposed acts to the
bankruptcy court; and (4) the bankruptcy court approved the
acts. In re Harris, 590 F.3d 730, 742 (9th Cir. 2009).
    Although the two doctrines overlap, including in the
terminology we have used to describe them, 7 each offers
unique protections. Quasi-judicial immunity shields a
trustee who acts without court authorization when
performing judge-like actions, and derived immunity
protects a trustee who performs court-sanctioned acts even
when the acts are non-adjudicative in nature. We discuss
each of these doctrines in turn.
                                  1.
    We start with quasi-judicial immunity. In a series of
decisions in the 1980s, we recognized that a bankruptcy
trustee may be entitled to quasi-judicial immunity “for her


7
  Because the terminological overlap may have contributed to doctrinal
confusion, we will refer only to “derived immunity” rather than “derived
judicial immunity.”
                     PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                   15


discretionary acts,” Bennett v. Williams, 892 F.2d 822, 825
(9th Cir. 1989), even if not expressly authorized by the
bankruptcy court, so long as she “is performing an integral
part of the judicial process,” Lonneker Farms, Inc. v.
Klobucher, 804 F.2d 1096, 1097 (9th Cir. 1986). Then, in
Antoine v. Byers & Anderson, Inc., 508 U.S. 429 (1993), “the
Supreme Court worked a sea change in the way in which we
are to examine absolute quasi-judicial immunity for
nonjudicial officers.” Castillo, 297 F.3d at 948. The Court
rejected our approach to immunity in which nonjudicial
officers receive immunity merely “because they are ‘part of
the judicial function.’” Antoine, 508 U.S. at 435 (quoting
Antoine v. Byers & Anderson, Inc., 950 F.2d 1471, 1476 (9th
Cir. 1991)).
    Judges themselves, the Court explained, receive absolute
judicial immunity only because “the independent and
impartial exercise of judgment vital to the judiciary might be
impaired by exposure to potential damages liability.” Id.
The applicability of judicial immunity thus depends on
whether there “has been ‘performance of the function of
resolving disputes between parties, or of authoritatively
adjudicating private rights.’” Id. at 435–36 (quoting Burns
v. Reed, 500 U.S. 478, 500 (1991) (Scalia, J., concurring in
the judgment in part and dissenting in part)).
    “When judicial immunity is extended to officials other
than judges, it is because their judgments are ‘functionally
comparable’ to those of judges—that is, because they, too,
‘exercise a discretionary judgment’ as a part of their
function.” Id. at 436 (brackets omitted) (quoting Imbler v.
Pachtman, 424 U.S. 409, 423 n.20 (1976)). “In determining
which officials perform functions that might justify a full
exemption from liability,” we undertake “a considered
inquiry into the immunity historically accorded the relevant
16                   PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


official at common law and the interests behind it.” Id. at
432 (quoting Butz v. Economou, 438 U.S. 478, 508 (1978)).
    In Castillo, we reconsidered the application of quasi-
judicial immunity to bankruptcy trustees in light of Antoine.
First, we considered the historical roles of bankruptcy
officers and observed that “the common-law and nineteenth
century antecedents of the modern bankruptcy trustee were
entrusted with both administrative and adjudicatory
functions.” Castillo, 297 F.3d at 950. The administrative
functions included “collecting, liquidating, and distributing
the debtor’s property to creditors,” while the adjudicatory
functions included “seizing property, summoning persons to
appear before them, and committing people to prison.” Id.
at 949. We concluded that “immunity would have extended
to the performance of these common-law adjudicatory
functions.” Id. at 950.
    We then considered a trustee’s role under the current
Bankruptcy Code. At a high level, the trustee gathers and
liquidates estate property (for which she is accountable),
ensures that the debtor performs his obligations, investigates
the debtor’s finances, and reviews the proofs of claim. Id.
If appropriate, the trustee opposes the debtor’s discharge,
provides relevant information to parties-in-interest, and, by
court order, operates the business on a short-term basis. Id.
The trustee also prepares the final report and an accounting
for the estate’s administration. Id. at 950–51. See generally
11 U.S.C. § 704 (setting forth the trustee’s duties). We thus
characterized the modern bankruptcy trustee as “a hybrid
official” who, “like the common-law bankruptcy judicial
officers,” has “many legal, adjudicative, clerical, financial,
administrative, and business functions” that can loosely be
categorized as either “adjudicatory” or “administrative.”
Castillo, 297 F.3d at 951.
                     PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                    17


     To determine whether a bankruptcy trustee is entitled to
quasi-judicial immunity, “we must examine the particular
function . . . at issue.” Id. When performing this inquiry,
courts should bear in mind that the Supreme Court has “been
‘quite sparing’ in [its] recognition of absolute immunity and
[has] refused to extend it any ‘further than its justification
would warrant.’” Burns, 500 U.S. at 487 (citation omitted)
(first quoting Forrester v. White, 484 U.S. 219, 224 (1988);
and then quoting Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800, 811
(1982)). Crucially, quasi-judicial immunity attaches only to
functions that are analogous to “the authoritative
adjudication of private rights to the bankruptcy estate.”
Castillo, 297 F.3d at 951.
    In Castillo, the actions at issue were “the scheduling and
giving of notice of hearings,” both of which, we held, “are
part of the judicial function of managing the bankruptcy
court’s docket in the resolution of disputes” as they could
not be disentangled from it. Id. Because “[t]his function is
unquestionably discretionary in nature”—notwithstanding
that the component acts might “appear ministerial” if “taken
out of context”—the trustee was entitled to quasi-judicial
immunity. Id. at 951–53.
    In Burton, we held that the function at issue was not
adjudicative in nature. The debtor and his counsel sued a
creditor’s attorney for violating the automatic stay. Burton,
862 F.3d at 745–46. The debtor had deposited funds from a
personal injury settlement with the bankruptcy trustee, and
the creditor’s attorney pressured the debtor to interplead the
funds in a parallel state court proceeding because it “would
resolve the interests of the lien holders more quickly than the
bankruptcy court.” Id. at 743. We held that the creditor’s
attorney, despite working with the state judge to have the
funds interpled, was not entitled to quasi-judicial immunity.
18                   PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


Id. at 749. We reasoned that historically, absolute immunity
for attorneys has been limited to “action[s] that only a legal
representative of the government could take,” such as
attorneys serving as prosecutors and, in certain contexts,
bankruptcy trustees. Id. at 748 (quoting Stapley v.
Pestalozzi, 733 F.3d 804, 812 (9th Cir. 2013)). More
relevant here, the functions that the creditor’s attorney had
performed—“private advocacy or attempted debt
collection”—were “distinct from the judicial function.” Id.
at 749.
                              2.
    Derived immunity arises out of the well-established
practice “by which trustees seek instructions from the court,
given upon notice to creditors and interested parties, as to
matters which involve difficult questions of judgment.”
Mosser, 341 U.S. at 274. We first recognized the doctrine in
Lonneker Farms. Citing to a Fifth Circuit case in which a
bankruptcy trustee was “entitled to derived immunity”
because he “sought and obtained court approval of his
actions,” Boullion v. McClanahan, 639 F.2d 213, 214 (5th
Cir. Unit A Mar. 1981) (per curiam), we held that derived
immunity protects a trustee who “act[s] under the authority
of the bankruptcy judge,” Lonneker Farms, 804 F.2d at
1097. To hold otherwise would “damage . . . the orderly
administration of justice in the federal court system” by
allowing an improper collateral appeal of the bankruptcy
court’s order. Mullis v. U.S. Bankr. Ct., 828 F.2d 1385, 1392
(9th Cir. 1987).
    In Bennett, we expanded on the doctrine. We explained
that a bankruptcy trustee “has a duty to preserve the assets
of an estate and must ‘exercise that measure of care and
diligence that an ordinarily prudent person would exercise
                      PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                     19


under similar circumstances.’” Bennett, 892 F.2d at 823
(quoting In re Rigden, 795 F.2d 727, 730 (9th Cir. 1986)).
While a trustee may be liable for even negligent violations
of this duty, we identified “certain standards” that, if met,
will immunize her. Id.
    As catalogued above, a trustee claiming derived
immunity must meet four requirements: (1) her acts must
have been within the scope of her authority; (2) the
interested parties must have had notice of the proposed acts;
(3) she must have candidly disclosed the proposed acts to the
bankruptcy court; and (4) the bankruptcy court must have
approved the acts. See Harris, 590 F.3d at 742.
     First, “[t]he act must be within the trustee’s official
duties.” Bennett, 892 F.2d at 823. “The powers and duties
of a bankruptcy trustee are extensive” under the Bankruptcy
Code and include “wide-ranging management authority over
the debtor.” Commodity Futures Trading Comm’n v.
Weintraub, 471 U.S. 343, 352 (1985). Given this significant
grant of authority, a trustee must take care not to exceed it.
For example, in Leonard v. Vrooman, 383 F.2d 556 (9th Cir.
1967), an overly zealous trustee broke into and seized real
property belonging to a third party, mistakenly believing it
belonged to the debtor, and refused to relinquish the property
after discovering that the third party had acquired and
recorded title prior to the bankruptcy. See id. at 560. We
acknowledged that the Bankruptcy Code obliged the trustee
to gather the debtor’s property and that the trustee’s “failure
to act diligently in this respect could result in a claim against
him.” Id. However, we explained that the trustee must
discharge the duty in an authorized way, and the proper
procedure would have been to obtain a turnover order. See
id. at 560–61.
20                    PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


    Even if the trustee acts within the scope of her authority,
she must “give notice . . . of a proposed action” to the debtor,
creditors, and other interested parties. Bennett, 892 F.2d at
823. Notice protects these parties’ due process rights by
providing them an opportunity to object and have the
bankruptcy court consider their concerns before granting any
relief to the trustee. See Mosser, 341 U.S. at 274 (explaining
that notice to interested creditors permits them “to show
cause why [the proposed action] should not [be] openly
authorized”). In Cochise College Park, we held that the
bankruptcy trustee was “personally responsible” for
unreasonably using creditors’ funds that “never became
property of the estate” to pay for estate administration. 703
F.2d at 1356–57. Although the bankruptcy court had
authorized the payments in a series of ex parte orders, the
orders were “insufficient to relieve the trustee of personal
liability” because “no notice of these transactions was given
to the [creditors], despite their obvious status as ‘interested
parties.’” Id. at 1357 n.25.
    Notice to interested parties is still not enough. “The
trustee’s disclosure to the court must be candid.” Bennett,
892 F.2d at 823. To satisfy the candor requirement, the
trustee’s representation must be both truthful and complete,
apprising the bankruptcy court of all material facts that
would bear on the court’s decision, including facts that
weigh against the proposed action. For example, in Mosser,
the trustee hired two employees to assist with the debtors’
reorganization. 341 U.S. at 268–69. Although the trustee
discussed hiring these “indispensable” employees with the
district court, he “did not disclose the critical fact that he was
employing them on terms which permitted their trading in
the . . . securities” of the debtors’ subsidiaries. Id. at 274.
Because this undisclosed information was material, the
                      PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                    21


trustee was personally liable for any losses from the conflicts
of interest. See id. (“It is hardly probable that a candid
disclosure to creditors, to the court, and to interested parties
would have resulted in instructions to have pursued this
course; but, had it been authorized, at least the assenting
creditors might have found themselves estopped to question
the transaction.”).
    Lastly, for derived immunity to attach, the trustee must
“obtain court approval.” Bennett, 892 F.2d at 823. Derived
immunity, as the name suggests, reflects the idea that the
trustee “share[s] the judge’s absolute immunity” to avoid
“the unfairness of sparing the judge who gives an order while
punishing the [trustee] who obeys it.” Kermit Constr. Corp.
v. Banco Credito y Ahorro Ponceno, 547 F.2d 1, 3 (1st Cir.
1976). Without the court’s approval, there is no such
unfairness in allowing the trustee to face liability for her
actions.
                              3.
    In concluding that “immunity covers claims pertaining
to ‘ordinary negligence’” but not “claims involving gross
negligence or willful misconduct,” the district court
ultimately relied on Continental Coin, a bankruptcy court
decision that attempted to reconcile our case law on
bankruptcy trustee immunity, which has not always been a
model of clarity. See Cont’l Coin, 380 B.R. at 11–15.
However, Continental Coin conflated the two strands of
immunity, see id. at 6 & n.8 (treating quasi-judicial
immunity and derived immunity “interchangeably”), and
applied an immunity standard that incorrectly turned on the
trustee’s degree of fault, see id. at 11.
   In Castillo, we described the trustee’s quasi-judicial
immunity as “absolute.” See 297 F.3d at 947 (“Absolute
22                   PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


judicial immunity is not reserved solely for judges, but
extends to nonjudicial officers for ‘all claims relating to the
exercise of judicial functions.’” (quoting Burns, 500 U.S. at
499 (Scalia, J., concurring in the judgment in part and
dissenting in part))). That means that a trustee’s quasi-
judicial immunity insulates her “from charges of erroneous
acts or irregular action, even when it is alleged that such
action was driven by malicious or corrupt motives.” Id. A
trustee’s derived immunity is similarly “broad.” Bennett,
892 F.2d at 823. So long as a trustee acts “within the scope
of [her] authority and pursuant to court order” after candid
disclosure and notice, id., her subjective intent is irrelevant,
as is that of the bankruptcy judge who approved the action,
see Boullion, 639 F.2d at 214 (“[Judicial] immunity is not
lost even though ‘the action (the judge) took was in error,
[or] was done maliciously . . . .’” (quoting Stump v.
Sparkman, 435 U.S. 349, 356 (1978))).
    Continental Coin expressed the concern, echoed here by
amicus curiae, that exposing trustees to liability for
negligence could discourage suitable persons from serving
as bankruptcy trustees. See 380 B.R. at 7 (“[N]o trustee in
his right mind would regularly subject himself to personal
liability for negligence or even to having to defend a lawsuit
for such alleged behavior.”). There are two responses. As a
legal matter, the Supreme Court has suggested that negligent
conduct is enough to impose liability on a trustee, see
Mosser, 341 U.S. at 272, and we have squarely so held, see
Cochise Coll. Park, 703 F.2d at 1357 n.26 (rejecting as a
“misreading of . . . Mosser” the view that “a bankruptcy or
reorganization trustee may be held personally liable for
damages only for injuries arising from intentional—as
opposed to negligent—conduct”). Under principles of stare
                     PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                    23


decisis, there is no reason to upset this longstanding
principle.
    As a practical matter, we doubt that subjecting trustees
to liability for negligence will dissuade potential trustees
from serving in that role. As we have explained, a trustee
enjoys immunity for negligent and even intentional conduct
in some instances. The broad scope of immunity, where it
applies, ensures that trustees do not become “a lightning rod
for harassing litigation aimed at judicial orders.” New
Alaska Dev. Corp. v. Guetschow, 869 F.2d 1298, 1303 (9th
Cir. 1989) (quoting Kermit Constr., 547 F.2d at 3).
    Even when a trustee does not have immunity for a
particular action or inaction, she can invoke the “business
judgment rule” as a defense to liability. See Mosser, 341
U.S. at 274 (“Courts are quite likely to protect trustees
against heavy liabilities for disinterested mistakes in
business judgment.”); Bennett, 892 F.2d at 824 (“We have
consistently held that liability will not be imposed for
mistakes in business judgment.”). Because a bankruptcy
trustee “may not be expected to conduct a business
according to the standards of the debtor,” we accord
deference to the trustee’s business management decisions.
Bennett, 892 F.2d at 824. If a trustee has “sound reasons”
for a business decision, “[l]iability will not be imposed for
the exercise of such judgment, absent negligence.” Sw.
Media, Inc. v. Rau, 708 F.2d 419, 425 (9th Cir. 1983).
    A trustee can further limit her liability by filing regular
reports of the estate’s management, thereby placing on
creditors “the burden of raising their objections.” Mosser,
341 U.S. at 274–75; see In re Cloobeck, 788 F.3d 1243, 1247
(9th Cir. 2015) (Wallace, J., concurring) (“A party must
object within a reasonable time or risk being deemed to have
24                   PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


consented to the action to which it objects.”); cf. In re
Gregory, 705 F.2d 1118, 1123 (9th Cir. 1983) (“When the
holder of a large, unsecured claim . . . receives any notice
from the bankruptcy court that its debtor has initiated
bankruptcy proceedings, it is under constructive or inquiry
notice that its claim may be affected, and it ignores the
proceedings to which the notice refers at its peril.”). Thus,
if a trustee “account[s] at prompt intervals,” Mosser, 341
U.S. at 274, and a creditor fails to timely object to the
trustee’s actions, then the creditor may be estopped from
mounting a collateral attack.
    And when a creditor brings factually or legally baseless
claims against the trustee for her administration of the estate,
the trustee can always seek sanctions, including “all or part
of the reasonable attorney’s fees and other expenses.” Fed.
R. Bankr. P. 9011(c)(4)(A)(iii); see Law v. Siegel, 571 U.S.
415, 427 (2014) (“[Rule 9011] authorizes the court to impose
sanctions for bad-faith litigation conduct . . . .”). The
prospect of sanctions should dissuade all but the most
foolhardy of creditors from engaging in abusive litigation
with the trustee over the estate’s management.
                              B.
    Although Phillips’s complaint contains some gratuitous
allegations regarding Goldman’s perceived failings, we
understand her claims to be relatively modest in scope. She
alleges that Goldman breached her duty to preserve estate
assets by allowing the two real properties to deteriorate from
Gilman’s neglect. And she alleges that Goldman failed to
safeguard estate property by not demanding that the tenants
pay rent or that Gilman turn over the rental income he had
already collected.
                     PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN                    25


    The complaint’s allegations relate to a bankruptcy
trustee’s functions of gathering estate property, investigating
the debtor’s finances, and operating the debtor’s business on
a short-term basis. These functions are not analogous to or
intertwined with “the authoritative adjudication of private
rights to the bankruptcy estate.” Castillo, 297 F.3d at 951.
Although they affect the estate’s assets and, indirectly, the
total amount available for distribution to creditors, they do
not determine how the assets will be divided among the
creditors. Rather, these functions call upon the trustee to act
as a property manager.
    Therefore, we hold that Goldman is not entitled to quasi-
judicial immunity from Phillips’s claims. Both Castillo and
Burton support this result. In Castillo, we described
“activities such as collecting, liquidating, and distributing
the debtor’s property to creditors” as “administrative” in
nature and distinguished them from “more traditional
judicial activities.” 297 F.3d at 949–50. In Burton, we
similarly held that “attempted debt collection” is not
adjudicative. 862 F.3d at 749. And our holding is consistent
with pre-Antoine case law establishing that a trustee can be
personally liable for inaction in the face of his duty to
preserve estate assets. See Rigden, 795 F.2d at 730, 733.
    We also conclude that, on the current record, Goldman
is not entitled to derived immunity. Phillips alleges that
Goldman made “no attempt . . . to obtain any orders to
preserve the bankruptcy estate or recover moneys taken from
it,” and we discern no orders in the bankruptcy docket
authorizing Goldman’s inaction in that regard. On remand,
Goldman is free to raise derived immunity as a defense if she
believes she can make the necessary showing.
26                   PHILLIPS V. GOLDMAN


    We reverse the district court’s decision upholding
immunity and remand for the bankruptcy court to consider
Goldman’s remaining arguments for dismissal. We decline
Phillips’s request to remand the case to a different
bankruptcy judge, as we conclude that the facts do not justify
such a measure. See Planned Parenthood Great Nw., Haw.,
Alaska, Ind., Ky. v. Labrador, 122 F.4th 825, 844 (9th Cir.
2024) (limiting reassignment to the “rare and extraordinary
circumstances” where the judge “has exhibited personal
bias” or it is otherwise necessary “to maintain the
appearance of justice” (quoting Nat’l Council of La Raza v.
Cegavske, 800 F.3d 1032, 1045 (9th Cir. 2015))).
     REVERSED and REMANDED.
