          United States Court of Appeals
                     For the First Circuit

No. 25-1192

           PREMCA EXTRA INCOME FUND LP, individually
        and on behalf of all others similarly situated,

                      Plaintiff, Appellant,

                           DYLAN DAS,

                           Plaintiff,

                               v.

                  COLIN M. ANGLE; JULIE ZEILER,

                     Defendants, Appellees,

                       IROBOT CORPORATION,

                           Defendant.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
               FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

          [Hon. William G. Young, U.S. District Judge]


                             Before

                  Rikelman, Lynch, and Aframe,
                        Circuit Judges.


     Christopher P. T. Tourek, with whom Joshua B. Silverman, Genc
Arifi, and Pomerantz LLP were on brief, for appellant.
     Alisha Q. Nanda, with whom James R. Carroll, Rene H. DuBois,
and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP were on brief, for
appellees.
June 5, 2026
              AFRAME, Circuit Judge.         In August 2022, Amazon, Inc.,

the online retailer, and iRobot, Inc., a robotics company best

known for inventing a popular robot vacuum cleaner called the

Roomba,      announced   their    intention       to    merge.      Over    the   next

approximately eighteen months, Amazon and iRobot sought clearance

for    the    merger     from    domestic    and        international      antitrust

regulators.      In January 2024, when approval from United States

and European Union authorities seemed doubtful, Amazon and iRobot

terminated their merger attempt.

              Following the abandoned merger, iRobot shareholders,

led    by    Premca    Extra    Income    Fund,    LP    ("Premca"),       brought   a

securities      fraud    class    action    against       iRobot,    Colin    Angle,

iRobot's chief executive officer, and Julie Zeiler, iRobot's chief

financial officer.        After Premca filed an amended complaint, the

defendants moved to dismiss it for failing to state a claim,

arguing that it neither identified a statement that contained an

actionable material misrepresentation or omission nor adequately

alleged scienter.        The district court agreed on both fronts and

dismissed the complaint with prejudice.                  Premca appealed.         After

oral    argument,      iRobot    entered    Chapter       11    bankruptcy,       which

resulted in a temporary stay of the appeal.                    During the stay, the

parties jointly requested to dismiss iRobot from the appeal but

to have the appeal proceed with respect to Angle and Zeiler (the

"individual defendants").          We granted that request.
                                         - 3 -
            We   now     conclude   that    the   district     court    correctly

dismissed the amended complaint for all statements identified by

Premca except for the August 24, 2023, modified proxy statement.

As we explain, the amended complaint plausibly alleges that an

opinion expressed in iRobot's modified proxy statement -- namely,

that the company expected regulatory approval for the merger -- is

actionable because it omitted important contrary information about

European    approval      in   circumstances        that   adequately     suggest

scienter.

                                       I.

            Because we are evaluating the grant of a motion to

dismiss    under    Federal    Rule   of    Civil    Procedure    12(b)(6),    we

describe the well-pleaded allegations from the amended complaint,

supplemented by "'documents the authenticity of which are not

disputed    by     the    parties,'   'official       public     records,'    and

'documents sufficiently referred to in the complaint.'"                   Constr.

Indus. & Laborers Joint Pension Tr. v. Carbonite, Inc., 22 F.4th

1, 4 (1st Cir. 2021) (quoting Mehta v. Ocular Therapeutix, Inc.,

955 F.3d 194, 198 (1st Cir. 2020)).

            We start with some background on the primary antitrust

authorities involved, namely, the European Commission ("EC") in

the European Union and the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") in

the United States.        We then turn to the details of the merger and

the travel of the case.
                                      - 4 -
     A.     Regulatory Background

            In the European Union, the EC reviews mergers that

exceed certain revenue thresholds, including the merger at issue

here.     Parties proposing a covered merger must formally notify

the EC of the transaction, and often, there are pre-notification

communications between the EC and the merging parties.               After

formal notification, the EC has            twenty-five working    days to

conduct a Phase I review.    During that review, the EC will obtain

information from the merging companies, communicate with them,

and hold a "state-of-play meeting" to disclose the investigation

results.    Following Phase I, the EC will either (1) "clear[]" the

merger -- unconditionally or subject to accepted remedies -- or

(2) open a Phase II investigation.

            The EC will launch a Phase II investigation if it has

concerns about the merger's anticompetitive effect on the European

market.    A Phase II investigation lasts ninety working days, but

the EC may extend it.     If, following Phase II, the EC concludes

that the proposed merger will impede competition, it will send

the parties a statement of objections.              The parties may then

respond to the objections, review the EC's file, and request an

oral hearing before an independent hearing officer.         In 2022, 2.1%

of mergers proposed to the EC entered Phase II.

            In the United States, merging companies involved in

transactions    of   a   certain    size     must    file   a   pre-merger
                                   - 5 -
notification, which either the FTC or the Department of Justice's

Antitrust Division reviews.           See 15 U.S.C. § 18a(a), (b)(1)(A).

The FTC reviewed the merger at issue here, and thus we focus on

the statutory requirements as applicable to that agency.                      The

pre-merger notification triggers a thirty-day waiting period while

the FTC conducts its review.          See id. § 18a(b)(1)(B).         If, during

the   waiting     period,     the    FTC    decides    that    it    needs    more

information,      it    may   make    a    so-called    second      request   for

information.      See id. § 18a(e).         The FTC may approve the merger

or sue to block it because of its anticompetitive effects.                     See

id. § 18a(f).      Throughout the process, the FTC will continue to

engage with the merging parties.           In 2022, the FTC issued a second

request for information in less than one percent of the mergers

it reviewed.

              Finally, we note that the United Kingdom's Competition

and Markets Authority ("CMA") also reviewed this merger.                       Its

review, however, is only tangential to this case and so we do not

provide further details on its regulatory processes.

      B.      iRobot and Amazon's Merger Attempt

              iRobot was founded in 1990 by Angle and two colleagues.

Initially, iRobot built robots mostly for the military, but by

the   early    2000s,   the   company      shifted    its   focus   to   consumer

products. Its primary product is the Roomba, the well-known robot

home vacuum that can sense dirt on its own.                    Despite initial
                                      - 6 -
success, iRobot's market share began to decrease in 2014 as new

competitors entered the market.          After a brief bump in sales

during the COVID-19 pandemic, iRobot's earnings continued to

decline.

            In May 2022, Amazon contacted iRobot about a potential

acquisition.    A couple months later, Amazon and iRobot agreed that

Amazon would pay sixty-one dollars per share to acquire iRobot.

The parties also agreed that Angle would continue as iRobot's CEO

after the merger.       As part of the agreement, the companies

committed to provide each other with "prompt notice" of "any

request or proceeding by or before any Governmental Authority with

respect to the" merger; use "reasonable best efforts" to obtain

regulatory clearance and resolve regulatory objections; "supply

as promptly as reasonably practicable" additional information

requested or required by regulators; and contest any proceedings

challenging    the   merger.    On   August    5,   2022,    the    companies

announced their merger agreement.             Shortly after        the merger

announcement, Amazon and iRobot began holding integration meetings

for nine separate work streams, including real estate and finance.

            In early September 2022, the FTC began its investigation

of   the   merger.    Shortly   thereafter,     iRobot      filed   with   the

Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") its original proxy

statement for the transaction. In that document, iRobot predicted

that "all applicable regulatory approvals [would] be obtained"
                                 - 7 -
but acknowledged that the merger "[could not] be consummated"

until such approvals were granted.1

          After filing its initial proxy statement, iRobot began

to face additional regulatory scrutiny.    On September 19, 2022,

the FTC, following its initial merger review, sent the parties a

second request for information about the transaction.      And in

early 2023, the EC also intensified its scrutiny of the merger.

According to a February 15, 2023, Financial Times article, the EC


     1    In the same document, iRobot also provided what would
     become a typical risk disclosure:

          Although Amazon.com and iRobot believe that
          the merger will not violate the antitrust or
          foreign investment laws and expect that all
          required regulatory clearances and approvals
          will be obtained, Amazon.com and iRobot
          cannot    assure    that    these   regulatory
          clearances and approvals will be timely
          obtained, obtained at all or that the granting
          of these regulatory clearances and approvals
          will not involve the imposition of additional
          conditions,    restrictions,   qualifications,
          requirements or limitations on the completion
          of the merger, including the requirement to
          divest assets, license or hold separate
          assets or terminate existing relationships
          and contractual rights, or agree to other
          remedies, or require changes to the terms of
          the Merger Agreement, or that a challenge to
          the merger on antitrust or foreign investment
          grounds will not be made, or if such challenge
          is made, what the result will be. These
          conditions or changes could result in the
          conditions to the merger not being satisfied.
          There is currently no way to predict how long
          it will take to obtain all of the required
          regulatory    approvals    or   whether   such
          approvals will ultimately be obtained . . ..
                               - 8 -
sent Amazon a series of detailed questions about the merger before

the parties had formally notified the EC of the merger.                       The

article     explained   that   the    EC's       questions   arose     from   an

investigation appearing in the MIT Technology Review that claimed

the Roomba could capture intimate images of people in proximity

to the product.

            About a month later, in March 2023, there were rumblings

that Amazon was resisting some regulatory requests.                    Politico

reported that Amazon had been "largely unresponsive to the FTC's

investigation" and refused "to turn over information requested by

the FTC."     Similarly, iRobot learned internally that Amazon was

not   providing   the   EC   with    all   the    information   that    it    had

requested.     According to confidential witness 2 ("CW2") -- who

was iRobot's senior tax manager for global finance from June 2017

to December 2023 and then the director of global finance -- in

May 2023, senior leadership, including the individual defendants

and iRobot's chief legal officer, Glen Weinstein, gathered for a

meeting.2     There, per CW2, Weinstein announced that the EC had

asked Amazon for information about its search engine because of

concerns that Amazon would boost its own products at competitors'



      2   Confidential witness 1 ("CW1") was a director-level
officer at iRobot between November 2021 and April 2024 who
reported on certain aspects of iRobot's business practices after
the merger agreement was signed. CW1's allegations do not bear
on this appeal.
                                     - 9 -
expense.     According to Weinstein, Amazon had refused to comply

with the EC's request.

           On May 9, 2023, iRobot filed a Form 10-Q.                       In that

filing, iRobot acknowledged that it and Amazon had received from

the FTC a second request for information related to the merger.

The   filing     also    indicated     that     iRobot   "and     Amazon    [were]

continu[ing] to work cooperatively with the FTC staff in its

review of the [m]erger."

           On June 1, 2023, iRobot and Amazon filed their formal

notification of the merger with the EC, and shortly thereafter,

the EC initiated a Phase I review.               About two weeks later, the

United Kingdom's CMA approved the merger.                Reuters reported the

approval and quoted Angle as stating that iRobot and Amazon

continued "to work cooperatively with other relevant regulators

in their review of the merger."

           On    July    6,    2023,    the     EC   issued   a   press    release

announcing      that    it    was   pursuing     a   Phase II     investigation.

Explaining this decision, the EC press release stated that it was

"concerned that the transaction would allow Amazon to restrict

competition in the market for robot vacuum cleaners . . . and to

strengthen its position as [an] online marketplace provider."                   In

particular, the press release cited a preliminary finding that:

           Amazon may have the ability and the incentive
           to foreclose iRobot's rivals by preventing
           them from selling [robot vacuum cleaners] on
                                       - 10 -
          Amazon's   online   marketplace  and/or   by
          degrading     their     access    to    [the
          marketplace] . . .. This may include: . . .
          favouring iRobot's [robot vacuum cleaner] in
          both non-paid (i.e., organic) and paid
          results (i.e., advertisements) displayed in
          Amazon's marketplace . . .. Such foreclosure
          strategies could restrict competition in the
          market for the manufacturing and supply of
          [robot vacuum cleaners], leading to higher
          prices, lower quality, and less innovation
          for consumers. (emphasis omitted)

The release also noted that "[t]he vast majority of . . . mergers

[presented to the EC] do not pose competition problems and are

cleared after a routine review."      At the end of the section

detailing the EC's competition concerns, the release explained

that "[t]he opening of an in-depth inquiry does not prejudge the

outcome of the investigation."

          Later that month, iRobot announced that it had secured

a $200 million loan for ongoing operations.   The next day, iRobot

and Amazon issued a joint press release announcing a reduction in

the per share purchase price that Amazon would pay to acquire

iRobot.   The release stated that completion of the merger was

subject to "regulatory approvals" and "approval of the amended

merger agreement by iRobot's stockholders."   It also stated that

"Amazon and iRobot [were] working cooperatively with the relevant

regulators in their review of the merger."

          In early August 2023, three significant events occurred

around the same time.   First, according to CW2, the companies

                             - 11 -
ceased     holding    real    estate     integration      meetings.     Second,

confidential witness 3 ("CW3"), a "[d]irector-level employee" from

April    2021    to   May    2024   whose    job   responsibilities    included

overseeing the company's "user experience and software design,"

similarly reported that iRobot's software engineering department

had stopped working on all integration matters with Amazon.

Third,     CW3   attended     a     senior   leadership     meeting   with   the

individual defendants. There, per CW3, Weinstein, the chief legal

officer, announced that the EC had requested information related

to Amazon's search engine -- specifically, information regarding

whether the engine was favoring Amazon's internal products to the

detriment of competition -- and that Amazon had refused this

request.

            Then, on August 8, 2023, iRobot filed a Form 10-Q with

the SEC, which included updates on the merger's regulatory status.

That filing disclosed the second request for information from the

FTC in September 2022; the approval by the CMA in June 2023; and

the EC's announcement of the Phase II investigation in July 2023.

The Form 10-Q provided standard warnings that the merger might

not obtain regulatory approvals.              It made no predictions about

the likelihood of obtaining the needed approvals.

            On August 24, 2023, iRobot filed with the SEC its

modified merger proxy statement, which Angle signed.                   For the

first time since filing the original proxy statement in early
                                       - 12 -
September 2022, iRobot stated that it and Amazon "expect[ed] that

all applicable regulatory approvals [would] be obtained" and

"believe[d] that the merger [would] not violate the antitrust or

foreign investment laws."         The statement also contained the same

caveats and risks that were included in the original September

2022 proxy statement.            The modified proxy statement did not

include a description of the anticompetitive concerns expressed

by   the    EC    in   its    press   release   announcing       the    Phase II

investigation.         Nor did it explain that Amazon had recently

refused to provide information about its search engine related to

the EC's competition concerns.

            According to CW2, in September 2023, iRobot executives

held discussions about plans for the company to proceed without

merging.         Further,    confidential   witness 4,     a   senior   project

manager at iRobot from June 2020 to May 2024, reported that by

October 2023, all integration meetings between iRobot and Amazon

had stopped.       On October 12, 2023, iRobot's shareholders voted in

favor of the merger.

            On November 7, 2023, iRobot filed another Form 10-Q with

the SEC.     That filing provided an update on the status of the

regulatory       reviews,    including   that   the   EC   had   extended   the

Phase II deadline to February 14, 2024.           This Form 10-Q continued

to warn investors that the merger might not obtain regulatory

approval.    But unlike the modified proxy statement published on
                                      - 13 -
August 24, the filing included no statement that iRobot expected

that all applicable regulatory approvals would be obtained.

            On November 27, 2023, the EC issued a statement of

objections to the merger.         The statement expressed concern that

Amazon    might   inhibit   competition      by   "preventing     rivals       from

selling [robot vacuum cleaners] on Amazon's online marketplace."

That same day, iRobot filed a Form 8-K with the SEC reporting the

EC's statement of objections.        The document described the purpose

of a statement of objections and stated that the companies would

be   allowed    "to   present    arguments   in   response   to    the    [EC's]

preliminary assessment."         iRobot again offered no prediction on

how the EC was likely to resolve the matter and stated that the

company     faced     a   risk     that   the     merger     would       not     be

"consummate[d] . . . in a timely manner or at all."

            In December 2023, it became public knowledge that Amazon

would defend the merger at a closed EC hearing later that month.

On January 10, 2024, a Politico article reported that Amazon did

not offer concessions at the hearing to try to gain the EC's

approval.      Nevertheless, the article quoted Angle as stating that

iRobot was "continu[ing] to work cooperatively with the [EC]" and

that the company "remain[ed] excited about the opportunity to work

together with Amazon." About a week later, the Wall Street Journal

reported that the EC intended to block the merger.              The next day,


                                    - 14 -
Bloomberg reported that the FTC was drafting a lawsuit to do the

same.

            On January 29, 2024, Amazon and iRobot issued a joint

press release announcing that the parties had entered into a

mutual agreement to terminate the merger.                Pursuant to that

agreement,       iRobot   received        a   ninety-four-million-dollar

termination fee from Amazon.      That same day, the company announced

layoff plans and that Angle had stepped down as CEO.

     C.     Procedural History

            A couple months later, Premca filed this suit against

iRobot and the individual defendants on behalf of a putative class

of iRobot investors.      Premca's amended complaint seeks recovery

against    all   defendants    under    § 10(b)   of   the   Securities   and

Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act"), 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), and Rule

10b-5, 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5, which was promulgated pursuant to

the Act.    The amended complaint also includes a claim against the

individual defendants as "controlling persons" under § 20(a) of

the Act.     15 U.S.C. § 78t.3         The amended complaint essentially

alleges that during the class period -- February 13, 2023, through

January    29,   2024 -- the    defendants    made     numerous   misleading



     3    The amended complaint also alleges a claim against
iRobot and Angle under § 14(a) of the Security and Exchanges Act,
15 U.S.C. § 78n(a), and Rule 14a-9, 17 C.F.R. § 240.14a-9, which
was promulgated pursuant to that Act.        The district court
dismissed this claim and Premca does not pursue it on appeal.
                                   - 15 -
statements and omitted material information regarding Amazon's

cooperation with regulators and the status of the regulatory

approval process.

            The defendants moved to dismiss the action based on the

heightened pleading standards supplied by Federal Rule of Civil

Procedure 9(b) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act

of 1995 ("PSLRA").         See 15 U.S.C. §§ 78u-4, 78u-5.           The district

court granted the motion on the § 10(b) claim, concluding that

the amended complaint contained insufficient factual support for

the fraud allegations and inadequate allegations of scienter. The

court then dismissed the § 20(a) claim because it was derivative

of the § 10(b) claim.        Premca timely appealed.          Following iRobot's

bankruptcy,      this   appeal     proceeds    only    as    to   the    individual

defendants.      Supra at slip op. 3.

                                       II.

            We review de novo the grant of a motion to dismiss.

Aldridge v. A.T. Cross Corp., 284 F.3d 72, 78 (1st Cir. 2002).                   A

complaint for securities fraud survives a motion to dismiss so

long as it states a claim that is plausible on its face, pleads

with particularity the circumstances constituting fraud, see Fed.

R.   Civ.   P.     9(b),     and    satisfies    the        heightened    pleading

requirements of the PSLRA.            State Tchrs. Ret. Sys. of Ohio v.

Charles River Lab'ys Int'l, Inc., 152 F.4th 1, 9 (1st Cir. 2025).


                                      - 16 -
           The parties agree that Premca's § 20(a) claim rises and

falls with its § 10(b) claim.            See Carbonite, 22 F.4th at 6.

Thus, we focus our analysis on the § 10(b) claim.                   A plausible

§ 10(b)    claim   requires   well-pleaded         allegations      of:   "(1) a

material     misrepresentation     or    omission;     (2) scienter;      (3) a

connection with the purchase or sale of a security; (4) reliance;

(5) economic loss; and (6) loss causation."            Id.    (quoting In re

Biogen Inc. Sec. Litig., 857 F.3d 34, 41 (1st Cir. 2017)).                Here,

iRobot challenges Premca's showing on the first two elements.

           In cases involving a § 10(b) claim, a complaint must

survive the heightened pleading standards established by Rule 9(b)

and the PSLRA.       See Charles River, 152 F.4th at 9.                   These

heightened standards affect both challenged elements here -- a

complaint must allege a misleading statement or omission with

heightened    particularity      and    scienter     with    both    heightened

particularity and plausibility.          See Glazer Cap. Mgmt., L.P. v.

Forescout Techs., Inc., 63 F.4th 747, 766 (9th Cir. 2023).

           With respect to the misleading statement or omission,

Rule 9(b) requires a plaintiff to "state with particularity" the

allegations "constituting the fraud."         Fed. R. Civ. P. 9(b).         And

the PSLRA requires the        complaint     to "specify       each    statement

alleged to have been misleading" and "the reason or reasons why

the statement is misleading." 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(b)(1); see Mehta,

955 F.3d at 206.
                                   - 17 -
             As for scienter, the PSLRA requires a complaint to

allege "with particularity facts giving rise to a strong inference

that the defendant acted with the required state of mind."                          15

U.S.C. § 78u-4(b)(2)(A).               To "qualify as 'strong[,]' . . . an

inference of scienter must be more than merely plausible or

reasonable -- it must be cogent and at least as compelling as any

opposing inference of nonfraudulent intent."                     Tellabs, Inc. v.

Makor Issues & Rts., Ltd., 551 U.S. 308, 314 (2007).

                                            III.

             We    start   our       discussion     by     addressing    a    threshold

question about which aspects of the amended complaint constitute

well-pleaded allegations.               Specifically, the parties disagree

about whether allegations from CW2 and CW3 related to certain

senior leadership meetings so qualify.                   Next, we turn to whether

any of the statements that Premca identifies supports a plausible

§ 10(b) claim.

       A.    The Confidential Witness Allegations

             In its amended complaint, Premca relies heavily on

information       provided      by    CW2     and    CW3    regarding    Weinstein's

statements        at   senior    leadership         meetings.      The       individual

defendants argue that we should ignore these allegations because

they   are   inadequately        pleaded       allegations      from     confidential

sources.     We disagree.


                                         - 18 -
              In     a     securities         fraud     case,       information      from

confidential sources may, consistent with the PSLRA, constitute

well-pleaded allegations.               See In re Cabletron Sys., Inc., 311

F.3d 11, 28-30 (1st Cir. 2002).               In ruling on a motion to dismiss,

a court may consider allegations from a confidential source when

those allegations indicate "both that the source had access to

information         and    that   the    information          has   the   earmarks    of

credibility."         N.J. Carpenters Pension & Annuity Funds v. Biogen

IDEC Inc., 537 F.3d 35, 52 (1st Cir. 2008).

              Overall, we take "a hard look" at information from

confidential sources "to evaluate [its] worth."                       Biogen IDEC, 537

F.3d    at    51.         In   doing    so,    we     apply    a    "totality   of   the

circumstances" approach.               In re Cabletron Sys., 311 F.3d at 30

(quoting United States v. Khounsavanh, 113 F.3d 279, 283 (1st Cir.

1997)).       This approach requires us to evaluate, inter alia, "the

level    of    detail      provided     by     the    confidential        sources,   the

corroborative nature of the other facts alleged (including from

other sources), the coherence and plausibility of the allegations,

the number of sources, the reliability of the sources, and similar

indicia."      Id. at 29-30.       No single factor "is dispositive."                Id.

at 30.       Applying this framework, the amended complaint contains

sufficient information to credit CW2 and CW3's information about

iRobot's senior leadership meetings.


                                         - 19 -
               First, the allegations are both plausible and coherent.

The amended complaint identifies CW2 as the director of global

finance, who reported directly to Zeiler.                  Further, it describes

CW2 as the finance lead for mergers and acquisitions and states

that starting in 2023, CW2 was substantially involved in managing

iRobot's real estate holdings.4               In a similar vein, the amended

complaint states that CW3 worked from April 2021 to May 2024 as a

"[d]irector-level employee" whose job responsibilities included

overseeing the company's "user experience and software design."

The    amended    complaint    thus    alleges      that   both    CWs   served   in

specific management positions at iRobot.

               The individual defendants assert that it is implausible

that       managerial   employees     would    be   included      in   senior-level

meetings where the chief legal officer announced information about

the pending merger.          But there is no obvious reason why these

managerial       employees    would    be     excluded     from   such    meetings.

Moreover, the CW allegations are based on the witnesses' "personal

knowledge" from their own participation in these meetings.                    In re

Cabletron Sys., 311 F.3d at 30.



       4  The   individual   defendants    contend   that   CW2's
information is not credible because, as a director of global
finance, CW2 would not have had responsibility for iRobot's real
estate holdings.    We do not understand, however, why it is
implausible for an iRobot executive involved in global finance to
have an expansive portfolio that could involve real estate. To
the extent this is of concern, it is better left for discovery.
                                       - 20 -
            Second, CW2 and CW3's descriptions of the leadership

meetings    are   corroborated       by   one    another,   along   with    other

sources.5   Both CWs reported that these meetings, held mere months

apart, were attended by the chief legal officer and the individual

defendants.       Moreover, they both alleged that the chief legal

officer provided similar merger updates about Amazon's refusal to

provide information about its search engine to the EC.6                    Non-CW

sources also corroborate CW2 and CW3's descriptions of the senior

leadership meeting.          Politico reported that Amazon declined to

provide information to the FTC in March 2023 and stated that

Amazon would not "offer concessions" to the EC to assuage its

concerns.         Further,    when    the       EC   initiated   the   Phase II

investigation, it issued a press release acknowledging that it

was concerned about Amazon's ability to leverage its own online

marketplace to the disadvantage of iRobot's competitors.7


     5    The CWs also corroborated each other about the cessation
of integration meetings with Amazon. CW2 reported the close of
real estate integration meetings near in time to when CW3 reported
the close of integration meetings involving the software
engineering department.
     6    To contest this point, the individual defendants point
out that the May 2023 meeting described by CW2 occurred before
the EC had begun its Phase I investigation.     But the amended
complaint alleges that the EC engaged in pre-investigation
contacts with the merging parties. Thus, it is plausible that
the EC requested information from Amazon about the search engine
before the merging parties issued the formal notice triggering
the Phase I investigation.
     7   The individual defendants argue that we should not view
the March 2023 Politico article as corroborating the senior
                             - 21 -
          The individual defendants' main objection to crediting

CW2 and CW3's allegations about the senior leadership meetings is

that these CWs did not provide any information confirming that

Amazon did not cooperate with the EC's merger review.    Building

from this premise, the individual defendants contend that the CW

allegations lack sufficient detail to support an inference that

iRobot falsely stated that Amazon was cooperating with regulators.

Again, we disagree.

          Information from confidential sources may be considered

so long as there are allegations suggesting that the confidential

source would have had access to the information described and that

the information provided is credible.   See Biogen IDEC, 537 F.3d



leadership meetings because the article involved the FTC while
the senior leadership meetings pertained to the EC.          The
individual defendants further argue that the March 2023 Politico
article should not be credited because it relies on anonymous
sources. These arguments are unconvincing.
          First, we think it irrelevant for these purposes that
the article addressed the FTC as opposed to the EC. The article
describes Amazon's conduct toward antitrust regulators that is
consistent with the conduct reported in the senior leadership
meetings. Second, the individual defendants do not challenge the
January 2024 Politico article, which addresses Amazon's conduct
with the EC.   While this second article was published several
months after the senior leadership meetings, it describes
substantively identical conduct to that reported by CW2 and CW3
and thus corroborates their statements. Finally, we are unmoved
by the individual defendants' attempt to paint these articles as
unreliable. Considering the totality of facts surrounding these
articles -- including that they were published in a reputable
media source and were corroborated by CW statements -- we believe
that they are reliable under the PSLRA and Rule 9(b).
                              - 22 -
at 52.    In this regard, the amended complaint provides enough

detail about CW2 and CW3 to provide a plausible basis for why they

would attend the senior leadership meetings.   It further provides

sufficient detail to credit their accounts of what Weinstein said

at those meetings.   The individual defendants have provided no

sound basis for discounting the CW statements.

          To the extent the individual defendants claim that the

confidential sources' information should be discounted because

the information the sources provide does not, by itself, show

fraud, they are wrong.   See Biogen IDEC, 537 F.3d at 52.   Instead,

we regularly consider CW information in conjunction with other

allegations in the amended complaint to assess the adequacy of

the claim.   See, e.g., In re Cabletron Sys., 311 F.3d at 28-31.

With that in mind, we turn to whether the allegations about these

meetings combined with other well-pleaded allegations establish a

plausible § 10(b) claim.

     B.   The § 10(b) Claim

          Premca's § 10(b) claim focuses on two sets of iRobot's

statements: (1) those indicating that Amazon was cooperating with

regulators in their evaluation of the merger,       and     (2) those

providing status updates on the merger-review process. Generally,

iRobot issued statements in the first category before the August

24, 2023, modified proxy statement, while statements in the second

category came on or after that date.       Because a statement or
                               - 23 -
omission "must have been misleading at the time it was made," we

proceed with our analysis chronologically.     Handal v. Innovative

Indus. Props., Inc., 157 F.4th 279, 293 (3d Cir. 2025) (quoting

In re NAHC, Inc. Sec. Litig., 306 F.3d 1314, 1330 (3d Cir. 2002));

see also id. (observing that "liability cannot be imposed on the

basis of subsequent events" (quoting In re NAHC, 306 F.3d at

1330)).   We start with the pre-August 24, 2023, statements and

end with the post-August 24, 2023, statements, all of which fail

to establish a basis for a plausible claim.    In between discussing

the failed statements from these two periods, we address the

August 24, 2023, modified proxy statement, which is the only

statement that presents a plausible claim under § 10(b).8

          1.   The Pre-August 24, 2023, Allegations

          Premca alleges, between the start of the class period

on February 13, 2023, and August 24, 2023, that iRobot made three

misrepresentations   about   cooperation      between   Amazon   and

regulators:

          May 9, 2023, 10-Q statement: iRobot "and
          Amazon continue to work cooperatively with

     8  That certain statements may not themselves be actionable
does not necessarily mean that they are inadmissible as evidence
of scienter, an issue to be determined by the district court on
remand. Cf. In re Cabletron Sys., Inc., 311 F.3d 11, 36-37 (1st
Cir. 2002) (finding certain statements alleged to be misleading
by omitting "adverse factors" were not actionable, but that, on
remand, those adverse factors could "help support scienter" and
"be considered" "[a]s the rationale for the other fraudulent
actions" alleged).
                              - 24 -
            the FTC staff in its review of the [m]erger."
            (Emphasis added).

            June 16, 2023, quote by Angle in a Reuters
            article: "[B]oth companies are continuing to
            work   cooperatively  with   other  relevant
            regulators in their review of the merger[.]"
            (Emphasis added) (last alteration in the
            original).

            July 25, 2023, joint press release: "Amazon
            and iRobot are working cooperatively with the
            relevant regulators in their review of the
            merger." (Emphasis added).

Premca argues that despite these public assertions of cooperation,

Amazon had, at certain points, not yet met regulators' requests

for information about its search engine.         In making its argument,

Premca contends that we should examine the whole sweep of its

amended complaint to determine whether these statements support a

plausible claim under § 10(b).       It suggests that if we do so, we

would see a "persistent series of refusals" to cooperate with

regulators by Amazon.       And based on this narrative, we would

further conclude that the individual defendants misled investors

with the requisite scienter every time iRobot announced Amazon's

continued cooperation with regulators.

            Our analysis, however, does not unfold in such a gauzy

manner.   Rather, we proceed "statement by statement."               Zhou v.

Desktop Metal, Inc., 120 F.4th 278, 293 (1st Cir. 2024).            In doing

so,   "we      evaluate     the     immediate      context      of        each

statement -- namely,      the   balance    of   what   was   said    on    the

                                  - 25 -
particular occasion, and the immediate circumstances in which the

particular statement was made."      Id. (citation modified).

            Under such an analysis, the amended complaint sets forth

only a handful of allegations that cast doubt on the pre-August

24, 2023, challenged statements pertaining to cooperation.             The

first relates to the FTC's merger review and is found in a March

2023 Politico article.    That article describes a series of ongoing

FTC investigations related to Amazon, including the iRobot merger.

It states that Amazon had been "largely unresponsive to the FTC's

investigation" of the iRobot merger and had "refus[ed] to turn

over information requested by the FTC."           It also includes a

statement   from   an   Amazon   spokesperson   that   the   company   was

"working cooperatively with the relevant regulators in their

review of the merger."     The article contains no official comment

from a regulatory agency asserting Amazon's lack of cooperation.

And it also does not allege that Amazon was entirely stonewalling

regulators in the review process.

            The next set of statements relates to the EC review.

The amended complaint references a February 15, 2023, Financial

Times article stating that the EC sent Amazon "a series of detailed

questions over the proposed transaction," though the article does

not report that Amazon refused to respond to these questions.          The

amended complaint then refers to the May 2023 meeting where the

chief legal officer announced to iRobot's senior leadership that
                                  - 26 -
the EC had "asked Amazon for information on how its search engine

worked . . . and Amazon steadfastly refused to cooperate with

regulators' requests."

            Assuming (with some skepticism) that the pre-August 2023

challenged statements were materially false or misrepresentative,

we agree with the district court that they do not give rise to a

strong inference of scienter and thus do not plausibly state a

§ 10(b) claim.      See Biogen IDEC, 537 F.3d at 47, 57 (affirming

dismissal     on   scienter   grounds   after   assuming   a   misleading

statement).    Scienter under the PSLRA is "a mental state embracing

intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud."         Aldridge, 284 F.3d

at 82 (quoting Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185, 193 n.12

(1976)).    For a complaint to state a plausible claim of scienter,

the plaintiff "must show either that the defendants consciously

intended to defraud, or that they acted with a high degree of

recklessness."     Id.   "Recklessness, as used in this context, does

not include ordinary negligence, but is closer to being a lesser

form of intent."      In re Biogen Inc. Sec. Litig., 857 F.3d at 41

(internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting Fire & Police Pension

Ass'n of Colo. v. Abiomed, Inc., 778 F.3d 228, 240 (1st Cir.

2015)).     As detailed above, for an inference of scienter to be

sufficiently strong "a reasonable person would have to deem it

cogent and at least as compelling as any opposing inference one

could draw from the facts alleged."        Id. (citation modified).
                                  - 27 -
            Any argument that the individual defendants possessed

the requisite scienter when making the challenged statements

presumes that they held a robust understanding of "cooperation,"

one defined by an inflexible obligation to provide regulators with

all requested information on demand.             But nowhere does the amended

complaint   state      that   Amazon    (or     iRobot)    were   under       such   an

obligation.      Nor does the amended complaint suggest that the

individual defendants understood "cooperation" to mean total and

immediate compliance.

            To   the    contrary,      Premca     alleges     that      the    merger

agreement required the parties to use "reasonable best efforts"

to obtain regulatory approval and to supply additional information

to regulators as promptly as "reasonably practicable."                        In this

context,    "reasonable"      leaves    space     for     give-and-take       between

antitrust regulators and merging parties.                     See    Water Island

Event-Driven Fund, LLC v. Trib. Media Co., 39 F.4th 402, 406 (7th

Cir. 2022) (explaining that phrases using the term "reasonable"

connote some flexibility as they "may mean different things to

different people").           For example, the FTC acknowledges that

merging parties may want to negotiate information requests and

invites regulated parties to submit "possible modifications" to

such   requests.       Fed.    Trade    Comm'n,     Requests      for    Additional

Information: Appeal Procedure, [https://perma.cc/59AD-F636] (last

visited June 3, 2026).         Given this understanding, the individual
                                       - 28 -
defendants likely understood "cooperation" not to require rigid

compliance with every regulatory request, but rather to allow for

some    "hardball"    between   regulated   entities   and     antitrust

authorities.    Water Island Event-Driven Fund, LLC, 39 F.4th at

405, 407.

            There is nothing in the amended complaint to suggest

that iRobot knew Amazon had stopped negotiating with regulators

about their information request or were otherwise stonewalling

the process when it said that the companies were cooperating.

Thus,   there   are   insufficient   allegations   that      iRobot   was

intentionally or recklessly deceptive when it made the challenged

cooperation statements. Premca's argument reduces to a reasonable

disagreement over the meaning of "cooperate"; that disagreement

does not give rise to a strong inference of scienter.

            Premca argues that our decision in Shash v. Biogen,

Inc., 84 F.4th 1 (1st Cir. 2023), permits a § 10(b) claim to

proceed where a defendant makes "broad statements" despite knowing

that they are only partially true.          It asserts that the same

reasoning applies here because the individual defendants knew that

Amazon was uncooperative at least insofar as it had not yet

satisfied certain information requests.

            In Shash, a pharmaceutical company stated that its "data

[were] all consistent" with patients' need for higher doses of a

drug for the drug to be effective.          84 F.4th at 11 (emphasis
                                 - 29 -
added).     We allowed a § 10(b) claim to proceed because despite

the company's unambiguously absolutist statement, it knew that

some of its data suggested otherwise for certain patient groups.

Id. at 12-14.

            Our case is unlike Shash because there is no plain

conflict     between   the   individual    defendants'   cooperation

statements and the information alleged.        The amended complaint

asserts only that iRobot knew Amazon had not yet complied with

certain information demands.     But, as explained, the individual

defendants could reasonably have viewed Amazon as cooperating with

regulators even while not fully complying with all information

requests.    Thus, unlike Shash, we do not face a situation where

the complaint alleges that      the   individual defendants   made a

statement despite possessing indisputably contrary information.9

            2.   The August 24, 2023, Modified Proxy Statement

            We consider next the allegations derived from the August

24, 2023, modified proxy statement.      The modified proxy statement

deserves separate consideration because it is the only statement



     9    Premca also claims that certain statements from the
pre-August 24, 2023, period are actionable because iRobot omitted
known facts signaling that the merger was suffering diminishing
prospects.   As we will discuss, the allegations suggesting the
merger was failing occurred after the pre-August 24, 2023,
statements. The only events referenced by Premca during the prior
period is Amazon's purported lack of cooperation. But, as just
explained, there are no allegations that Amazon declined to work
with regulators.
                                - 30 -
within the class period where the company affirmatively offered a

positive prediction about the outcome of the regulatory review

process.   Specifically, in this filing, the individual defendants

claimed they "expect[ed] that all applicable regulatory approvals

[would] be obtained" and that "the merger [would] not violate the

antitrust or foreign investment laws."               The filing contained

caveats, however, that such approvals were not assured.

           Because this statement of expectation lacks certainty,

it is an opinion.       See Carbonite, 22 F.4th at 7.           But that does

not necessarily shield it from serving as a predicate for § 10(b)

liability.      Id.   For a claim premised on an opinion statement to

be viable, the complaint must identify "particular (and material)

facts going to the basis for the [defendants'] opinion" such as

"knowledge [of information that the defendant possessed] whose

omission makes the opinion statement at issue misleading to a

reasonable person reading the statement fairly and in context."

Omnicare, Inc. v. Laborers Dist. Council Constr. Indus. Pension

Fund, 575 U.S. 175, 194 (2015).          Omitted information is material

where "it is substantially likely 'that the disclosure of the

omitted . . . fact      would   have    been    viewed   by    the   reasonable

investor   as    having   significantly        altered   the   total    mix   of

information made available.'"          Carbonite, 22 F.4th at 8 (quoting

Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 231-32 (1988)).


                                  - 31 -
            In Omnicare, the Supreme Court gave an example of an

actionable material omission from an opinion statement: If a

company opines that it believes its "conduct is lawful," it would

be material to omit that the company lawyer has taken the opposite

view.    575 U.S. at 188-89.     On the other hand, a company offering

the same opinion would not have omitted a material fact by

withholding the negative view of a junior lawyer where several

senior lawyers favor the company's position.         Id. at 189-90.   That

is so because "a reasonable investor does not expect that every

fact known to [a speaker] supports its opinion statement." Id. at

190.    This example teaches that whether a particular omission is

material to a particular opinion statement is a question of

degree.

            Here, we conclude that the modified proxy statement's

prediction of regulatory success crosses the line and qualifies

as a misleading statement.       It is striking that months after the

company refrained from predicting the outcome             of the needed

regulatory approvals, it did an about face and predicted success.

And it did so in the face of a mix of new information indicating

that the EC, which had just taken the rare step of elevating the

investigation to Phase II, would grant such approval.         Crucially,

the    statement   failed   to   contemporaneously    disclose   Amazon's

ongoing refusal to provide the EC with information about its


                                  - 32 -
search    engine.       As    we    now   explain,    these   omissions    were

sufficiently material to serve as a predicate for a § 10(b) claim.

            In the lead-up to the issuance of iRobot's modified

proxy     statement,    its    executives,       including    the     individual

defendants, were aware of two              crucial pieces     of information

related to Amazon's search engine.          The first was public.        On July

6, 2023, the EC announced that it would subject the merger to a

Phase II investigation,            which does    not occur in "[t]he vast

majority" of EC-reviewed mergers.               In its announcement, the EC

specified its concerns with the merger, foremost of which was

Amazon's potential "ability and incentive to foreclose iRobot's

rivals by preventing them from selling [robot vacuums] on Amazon's

online marketplace . . .."            The EC elaborated that Amazon could

favor "iRobot's [vacuums] in both non-paid (i.e., organic) and

paid     results    (i.e.,    advertisements)        displayed   in    Amazon's

marketplace."       Thus, the EC had publicly expressed concerns that

Amazon would favor iRobot's products over competitors' products

in its search engine results.

            The second piece of information was private.                  Premca

alleges that during two senior leadership meetings -- one in May

2023, the other in August 2023 -- Weinstein, iRobot's chief legal

officer, had warned that Amazon was refusing to provide the EC

with "information" about how its "search engine worked," which


                                      - 33 -
would help the EC determine whether Amazon was favoring its

internal products to the detriment of competition.10

            Taken    together,     these     two    pieces   of     information

reasonably indicated the merger faced regulatory difficulty.                   In

part motivated by concerns over Amazon's search engine, the EC

was taking a rare step of initiating a Phase II investigation.

And yet, reading the allegations in the light most favorable to

Premca,     Amazon   had   been    refusing    to    provide      the   EC   with

information to address this concern for months.

            Viewed   against      that   backdrop,     the     modified      proxy

statement's optimism       could be found to have been materially

"misleading" to investors for saying "one thing and holding back

another."     Omnicare, 575 U.S. at 192.           iRobot's rosy prediction

of regulatory success, which had not appeared in any public filing

since the original proxy statement             in September 2022,            could

reasonably be understood as reassurance to investors as it came




     10   The amended complaint does not provide the exact date
on which the August 2023 senior leadership meeting occurred. But
it alleges that iRobot's August 8, 2023, Form 8-K filing omitted
certain material information, including that iRobot's software
engineering department had stopped working on integration meetings
with Amazon. We infer from this allegation that the cessation of
the integration meetings involving the software engineers occurred
before August 8, 2023. And since the amended complaint alleges
that the second senior leadership meeting occurred at "the same
time" as the stoppage of the integration meetings, we further
infer that the second meeting about the search engine also
occurred before August 8, 2023.
                                    - 34 -
on the heels of the EC's Phase II announcement.              But iRobot did

not   include     information      about   Amazon's    refusal   to    provide

information on the search engine, which was critical to the EC's

publicly expressed concerns.          Including that information could be

found to have "significantly altered the total mix of information"

available    to    investors    by    undermining     iRobot's   message    of

reassurance.      Carbonite, 22 F.4th at 8 (quoting Basic, 485 U.S.

at 231-32); see Glazer Cap. Mgmt., 63 F.4th at 779 (finding a

misleading      omission   where     the   defendant    publicly      expressed

optimism that a merger would close without disclosing private

information that the counterparty was considering backing out).

            The amended complaint also makes sufficient allegations

to give rise to a strong inference of scienter.                  It paints a

picture of iRobot as a declining company that was counting on the

Amazon merger to improve its financial footing.             By August 2023,

the merger's success hinged on regulatory approval from antitrust

authorities, including the EC.             And at this point, the EC's

concerns about Amazon's search engine were publicly known. "[T]he

importance" to the individual defendants of both the merger and

the EC's ability to access Amazon's search engine information

leads to the "inference that" the individual defendants were

"paying close attention" to those details.             Local No. 8 IBEW Ret.

Plan & Tr. v. Vertex Pharms., Inc., 838 F.3d 76, 82 (1st Cir.

2016) (citation omitted).            Based on this inference, we do not
                                      - 35 -
believe that the individual defendants would merely neglect to

provide    the   troubling    information    about   the   merger   while

expressing optimism about it.

           Moreover, the amended complaint sufficiently alleges

that iRobot knew about Amazon's reluctance to share information

regarding its search engine with the EC.         Amazon's position was

important enough that iRobot's chief legal officer reported twice

to its executives, including the individual defendants, that

Amazon was not sharing the requested search engine information

with the EC.     Yet, when predicting regulatory approval, iRobot

declined to disclose this material information, thereby issuing a

statement when "they knew facts suggesting the statement[] w[as]

inaccurate or misleadingly incomplete."          Aldridge, 284 F.3d at

83.

           Our conclusion is unchanged by iRobot's boilerplate

assertions in the modified proxy statement that it could not

"assure that [EC] regulatory clearances and approvals [would] be

timely    obtained   [or]    obtained   at   all."    Generalized   risk

disclosures like these do not give a company a "free pass to

deceive investors about a specific risk."            Charles River, 152

F.4th at 13; see Glazer Cap. Mgmt., 63 F.4th at 779 (holding that

boilerplate risk disclosures about hypothetical risks do not cure

a misleading statement).      Nor do we think that the CMA's approval

of the merger lessens the individual defendants' culpable mind.
                                  - 36 -
There is no indication that the individual defendants would have

viewed the CMA's approval as abating the EC's concerns about

Amazon's search engine or the merger overall.     Finally, at oral

argument, the defendants contended that the EC's acknowledgment

that it had not prejudged the Phase II investigation mitigated

their scienter.   We disagree.    It would be strange if the EC had

asserted that it had prejudged the inquiry; a basic reassurance

of fairness would not have reasonably assuaged the foreboding

facts that iRobot knew -- the EC had taken a rare investigatory

step and was concerned about the very information that Amazon was

refusing to turn over.

          For these reasons, we conclude that Premca has plausibly

alleged a § 10(b) claim and a derivative § 20(a) claim based on

omissions from the optimistic predictions in the modified proxy

statement.11




     11   In a footnote, the individual defendants state that the
prediction   of  regulatory   approval   is  a   "forward-looking
statement . . . accompanied by adequate risk disclosures" and
thus is "independently not actionable under the PSLRA's
forward-looking safe harbor."    This argument is waived because
the individual defendants "raise[]" it "only in a footnote" and
do so "in a perfunctory manner." Tax-Free Fixed Income Fund for
P.R. Residents, Inc. v. Ocean Cap. LLC, 137 F.4th 6, 24 (1st Cir.
2025) (quoting P.R. Tel. Co. v. San Juan Cable LLC, 874 F.3d 767,
770 (1st Cir. 2017)).    They provide no argument in this Court
about the adequacy of the risk disclosures in the modified proxy
statement.
                                 - 37 -
            3.      The Post-August 24, 2023, Allegations

            Finally, we address the statements identified by Premca

that post-date the August 24, 2023, modified proxy statement.

Unlike the statements made on that day, none of these statements

predicted regulatory success. Instead, they provide updates about

the ongoing regulatory processes.                Premca does not claim that

these statements contain affirmative misrepresentations; rather,

it    asserts    that   they    are    misleading      because   iRobot   did    not

contemporaneously disclose certain other information that, in its

view, would have strengthened the view that the merger was likely

doomed.

            The relevant iRobot statements are: (1) a November 7,

2023, filing in which iRobot reported the FTC's second request

for    information      and    materials     about     the   merger,   the   CMA's

unconditional approval of the merger, and the EC's commencement

of an "in-depth Phase [II] review," (2) a November 27, 2023,

statement       reporting     that    the   EC   had   issued    a   statement    of

objections and describing the process for the parties to respond

to those objections, and (3) a January 10, 2024, statement by

Angle in a Reuters article asserting that iRobot continued "to

work cooperatively with the [EC] and other regulators in their

review of the merger" and that the company "remain[ed] excited

about the opportunity to work together with Amazon."


                                        - 38 -
            Premca   contends   that   these   statements   about     the

regulatory status misled investors because iRobot did not disclose

that (1) Amazon had failed to cooperate with government regulators

by refusing to provide information about its search engine; (2) in

September 2023, iRobot executives had begun to formulate plans

for the business without the merger; and (3) by October 2023,

Amazon and iRobot had completely stopped holding integration

meetings.

            Section 10(b) and Rule 10(b)(5) only prohibit omissions

that engender "half-truths." Macquarie Infrastructure Corp. v.

Moab Partners, L.P., 601 U.S. 257, 263 (2024).      The law thus does

not impose an "affirmative duty to disclose any and all material

information."    Matrixx Initiatives, Inc. v. Siracusano, 563 U.S.

27, 44 (2011).   "An omission, even if material, is actionable only

if it 'renders affirmative statements made misleading.'"            Zhou,

120 F.4th at 292 (quoting Macquarie Infrastructure, 601 U.S. at

265). Under these standards, the individual defendants were under

no obligation to disclose any of the alleged developments.

            First, the amended complaint does not allege that Amazon

continued to deny the EC's information requests about its search

engine after the August 2023 senior leadership meeting.       Yet, the

statements at issue were made in November 2023, over three months

later.   Whether or not Amazon had provided the EC with all of the

information it had requested, a compromise was apparently worked
                                 - 39 -
out, which permitted the EC to resume the investigation of the

merger.      Specifically, the complaint alleges that the EC had

suspended its investigation deadline so that it could obtain

additional information about the merger and that it had restarted

its investigation in October 2023, once it had obtained that

information. The EC's statement of objections, issued on November

27, 2023, corroborates this inference because it does not identify

an inability to obtain necessary information from Amazon as a

problem in its review.          "[T]he immediate circumstances" around

the post-August 2023 statements therefore do not suggest that

Amazon was uncooperative with regulators at the operative time,

and so iRobot had no obligation to state as much.              Zhou, 120 F.4th

at 293 (citation omitted).

             Second, iRobot was not obliged to disclose that, in

September 2023, it had started contingency planning in the event

that   the   merger   failed.       Based   on   iRobot's      status   reports,

investors already knew that the FTC had propounded a second

request for information and that the EC had launched a Phase II

investigation.        These   are   rare    events   in    a   merger   review,

suggesting strong regulatory headwinds.              A reasonable investor

thus would have known that there was at least a real possibility

that the regulators would reject the merger.              We do not think that

it would have added much to the "mix of information" to disclose,

along with its bleak regulatory updates, a notice that it had
                                    - 40 -
started to plan for contingencies.          Carbonite, 22 F.4th at 8.    We

add that just because iRobot released certain information about

the merger review does not mean that it needed to reveal everything

about its internal thinking.       It was "required only to reveal the

facts necessary to make the existing statement not 'so incomplete

as to mislead.'"     Zhou, 120 F.4th at 294 (quoting Backman v.

Polaroid Corp., 910 F.2d 10, 16 (1st Cir. 1990)).            Nothing about

iRobot's contingency planning makes its regulatory status updates

misleading.

            The same is true regarding Premca's allegations about

the cessation of integration meetings between iRobot and Amazon.

The amended complaint asserts that there were nine work streams

participating in these integration meetings between the companies;

some of these meetings stopped in August 2023; and all of them

ended by October 2023.    The amended complaint, however, provides

no well-pleaded allegations for why they ended.

            Premca suggests we should infer that these meetings

ended because the companies recognized that the merger was going

to   fail   regulatory   review.       But     that   is   unsupported   by

particularized allegations, as required by the PSLRA.           Amazon and

iRobot began integration meetings roughly fourteen months before

they fully ended.    Toward the end of those fourteen months, the

integration meetings ended at different times in the Summer and

Fall of 2023, implying that each ended on its own timetable rather
                                   - 41 -
than as the result of a top-down edict related to the status of

the regulatory review.    Moreover, Premca's own allegations assert

that Amazon, with the likely assistance of iRobot pursuant to the

merger agreement, defended the merger in front of the EC in

mid-December 2023.     Between the paucity of allegations regarding

why the integration meetings ended and iRobot's ongoing efforts

to obtain regulatory approval, it would not be proper to infer

that iRobot had completely thrown in the towel when it made the

challenged statements after August 2023.

            In sum, iRobot had no duty to disclose any of the merger

developments that the amended complaint identifies following the

issuance of the modified proxy statement.             Thus, none of the

post-August 2023 statements identified in the amended complaint

are actionable under § 10(b).

                                  IV.

            For the reasons stated, we reverse the district court's

dismissal   of   the   § 10(b)   and   § 20(a)     claims   based    on   the

predictions of regulatory approval contained in the August 2023

modified proxy    statement.     We    otherwise    affirm the      district

court's order.    The case is remanded for further proceedings.           No

costs are awarded.

            So ordered.




                                 - 42 -
