25-2728-cv
20230930-DK-Butterﬂy-1 Inc. v. HBC Invs. LLC



                          United States Court of Appeals
                             For the Second Circuit

                                               August Term 2025

                                         Argued: June 23, 2026
                                         Decided: July 7, 2026

                                                  No. 25-2728




                      20230930-DK-BUTTERFLY-1, INC., f/k/a Bed Bath &
                                      Beyond Inc.,

                                               Plaintiff-Appellant,

                                                        v.

                        HBC INVESTMENTS LLC, HUDSON BAY CAPITAL
                                   MANAGEMENT LP,

                                          Defendants-Appellees,




                         Appeal from the United States District Court
                           for the Southern District of New York
                         No. 24-cv-00370, Mary Kay Vyskocil, Judge.
      Before: CALABRESI, LYNCH, and SULLIVAN, Circuit Judges.

       Plaintiff 20230930-DK-Butterfly-1 (“Butterfly”) – the post-bankruptcy
successor of retailer Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBBY”) – appeals from a judgment of
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Vyskocil,
J.) dismissing its claim under section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the “Exchange Act”) for the disgorgement of short-term profits acquired by an
investment manager and its client fund (collectively, “Hudson Bay”).

       Shortly before declaring bankruptcy, BBBY sold derivatives to Hudson Bay
granting it the ability to acquire – at a discount – large amounts of BBBY’s common
stock. The power to buy up significant blocks of stock, however, comes with
certain responsibilities. Specifically, section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C.
§ 78p(b), strictly requires beneficial owners of more than ten percent of a public
company’s stock – including those who have the right to acquire such ownership
– to disgorge all short-term profits. Looking to avoid this potential liability,
Hudson Bay included so-called “blockers” in the contracts governing its
derivatives. These clauses, on their face, prevented Hudson Bay from ever actually
obtaining more than 9.99% of BBBY’s common stock at any one time. With the
blockers in place, Hudson Bay reaped large short-term profits by acquiring BBBY’s
stock, selling it, and then acquiring more – all the while keeping its ownership of
BBBY’s stock below ten percent.

       Butterfly subsequently sued Hudson Bay, alleging that (i) the blockers were
illusory; (ii) Hudson Bay effectively had the right to acquire more than ten percent
of BBBY’s common stock; and (iii) Hudson Bay thus faced strict liability and
mandatory disgorgement of its short-term profits. The district court disagreed
with Butterfly’s first premise and dismissed the complaint, concluding that the
blockers shielded Hudson Bay from section 16(b) liability. In resolving what is an
issue of first impression in this Circuit, we agree with the district court and
accordingly AFFIRM the judgment in full.

      AFFIRMED.

                                JAMES A. HUNTER, Law Office of James A. Hunter,
                                Radnor, PA, for Plaintiff-Appellant.

                                DOUGLAS A. RAPPAPORT (James E. Tysse, Akin
                                Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, Washington,
                                         2
                                D.C.; Kaitlin D. Shapiro, Akin Gump Strauss
                                Hauer & Feld LLP, New York, NY, on the brief),
                                Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, New York,
                                NY, for Defendants-Appellees.

                                Michael C. Keats, Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver, &
                                Jacobson LLP, New York, NY, for Amicus Curiae
                                Managed Funds Association in support of Defendants-
                                Appellees.

RICHARD J. SULLIVAN, Circuit Judge:

      Plaintiff 20230930-DK-Butterfly-1 (“Butterfly”) – the post-bankruptcy

successor of retailer Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBBY”) – appeals from a judgment of

the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Vyskocil,

J.) dismissing its claim under section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

(the “Exchange Act”) for the disgorgement of short-term profits acquired by an

investment manager and its client fund (collectively, “Hudson Bay”).

      Shortly before declaring bankruptcy, BBBY sold derivatives to Hudson Bay

granting it the ability to acquire – at a discount – large amounts of BBBY’s common

stock. The power to buy up significant blocks of stock, however, comes with

certain responsibilities. Specifically, section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C.

§ 78p(b), strictly requires beneficial owners of more than ten percent of a public

company’s stock – including those who have the right to acquire such ownership

– to disgorge all short-term profits. Looking to avoid this potential liability,
                                         3
Hudson Bay included so-called “blockers” in the contracts governing its

derivatives. These clauses, on their face, prevented Hudson Bay from ever actually

obtaining more than 9.99% of BBBY’s common stock at any one time. With the

blockers in place, Hudson Bay reaped large short-term profits by acquiring BBBY’s

stock, selling it, and then acquiring more – all the while keeping its ownership of

BBBY’s stock below ten percent.

      Butterfly subsequently sued Hudson Bay, alleging that (i) the blockers were

illusory; (ii) Hudson Bay effectively had the right to acquire more than ten percent

of BBBY’s common stock; and (iii) Hudson Bay thus faced strict liability and

mandatory disgorgement of its short-term profits. The district court disagreed

with Butterfly’s first premise and dismissed the complaint, concluding that the

blockers shielded Hudson Bay from section 16(b) liability. In resolving what is an

issue of first impression in this Circuit, we agree with the district court and

accordingly affirm the judgment in full.

                               I.    BACKGROUND

      BBBY was founded in 1971 and eventually grew into a “nationally[ ]known

retailer of home goods.” J. App’x at 14. But by the early 2020s, it had hit hard

times, as “pandemic-related store closures, supply disruptions, and management




                                           4
missteps” led it to the brink of financial ruin. Id. In “desperate need of cash,”

BBBY turned to the capital markets to issue “three new classes of derivative

securities” – (i) convertible preferred stock; (ii) preferred-stock warrants; and

(iii) common-stock warrants. Id. at 14–15. In a nutshell, those derivatives enabled

investors to obtain common stock at a potential discount by either converting their

preferred stock to common stock, exercising their warrants to acquire preferred

stock (and then converting it), or simply exercising their warrants to obtain

common stock. Ultimately, Hudson Bay bought up almost all these derivatives,

“anchor[ing]” the public offering in return for “the right to buy heavily

discounted, freely tradable BBBY common stock.” Id. at 15, 20 (internal quotation

marks omitted).

      Hudson Bay did not, however, want to exercise too much control over BBBY.

That is because federal securities laws would require Hudson Bay to take on

certain   regulatory   responsibilities,   including   possible   “disclosure   and

disgorgement obligations,” if it “beneficially own[ed]” – or had the ability to

acquire – at least ten percent of BBBY’s common stock at any given moment. Id. at

30. “In an attempt to suppress [its] beneficial ownership,” Hudson Bay therefore




                                           5
added contractual provisions known as “blockers” to the terms of its derivatives.

Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).

      These blockers prohibited Hudson Bay from ever “beneficially own[ing] in

excess of 9.99%” of BBBY’s common stock. Id. at 31 (internal quotation marks

omitted). Indeed, they expressly provided that any preferred-stock conversion or

warrant exercise would “be null and void and treated as if never made” if it

brought Hudson Bay over the 9.99% threshold, and that Hudson Bay would “not

have the power to vote or transfer” any shares issued in excess of that percentage.

Id. at 31, 88, 154 (internal quotation marks omitted). And every time it sought to

convert its preferred stock or exercise its warrants, Hudson Bay was also required

to certify that upon execution of the requested conversion or exercise, it would not

“have beneficial ownership. . . of a number of shares of [BBBY] Common Stock

[that] exceed[ed]” 9.99%. Id. at 275, 278.

      Hudson Bay and BBBY supplemented these contracts with a letter

agreement (the “Side Letter”), which provided, as relevant here, that (i) the public-

offering documents “set forth the totality of the procedures required of [Hudson

Bay] in order to exercise” its warrants and convert its preferred shares; (ii) BBBY

would not “require” Hudson Bay to produce additional “information or




                                             6
instructions” when Hudson Bay attempted to invoke those rights; and (iii) BBBY

would instead “honor” Hudson Bay’s requests for stock “in accordance with the

terms” of the public-offering documents. Id. at 212, 221–22. The Side Letter also

made clear that its terms neither superseded nor in any way altered the

public-offering documents. Id. at 225.

      With these agreements in place, BBBY received its cash infusion. But it was,

in the end, not enough: BBBY continued to spiral downward and ultimately filed

for bankruptcy in April 2023. Even as BBBY teetered on the brink of bankruptcy,

however, Hudson Bay “reaped . . . profit[s] of over $300 million” by rapidly

acquiring newly issued BBBY stock at a discount and then reselling it at market

value. Id. at 13. In May 2024, Butterfly (BBBY’s successor) sued Hudson Bay,

alleging that the blockers were “illusory,” that Hudson Bay consistently owned

more than ten percent of BBBY, and that Hudson Bay was “strictly liable to account

for and repay” all its short-term profits under section 16(b). Id. at 10, 13.

      The district court disagreed, concluding that Butterfly did not sufficiently

plead that “the blocker provisions were illusory or a sham.” Sp. App’x at 32.

Butterfly timely appealed.




                                          7
                                 II.    DISCUSSION

      “We review de novo a district court’s dismissal for failure to state a claim,

accepting all factual allegations in the complaint as true and drawing all

reasonable inferences in favor of the plaintiff.” Knapp v. Barclays PLC, 171 F.4th

166, 170 (2d Cir. 2026) (internal quotation marks omitted). “To survive a motion

to dismiss, a complaint must contain sufficient factual matter, accepted as true, to

state a claim to relief that is plausible on its face.” Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662,

678 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).

      A.     Contractual Blockers Shield Investors from Section 16(b) Liability.

      Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act is a “blunt instrument”: to categorically

“remove any temptation . . . to engage in” insider trading, it imposes “strict

liability” on corporate insiders who have profited from buying and selling

securities within a six-month period. Magma Power Co. v. Dow Chem. Co., 136 F.3d

316, 320–21 (2d Cir. 1998) (citing 15 U.S.C. § 78p(b)). Those insiders include both

a public company’s directors and officers and its powerful shareholders – namely,

those who “directly or indirectly” are “the beneficial owner[s] of more than [ten]

percent of any class of any equity security.” 15 U.S.C. § 78p(a). Furthermore, even

potential beneficial ownership qualifies; so long as the insider “has the right to




                                           8
acquire beneficial ownership” of the underlying security, 17 C.F.R. 240 § 13d–

3(d)(1)(i); see also 17 C.F.R. § 240.16a–1(a)(1), it will be subject to section 16(b)’s

strict-liability ban on short-swing profits.

      Sometimes, however, investors want to hold large numbers of options,

warrants, or convertible securities without navigating the perils of section 16(b).

To do so, they employ so-called “blocker[s]” or “conversion cap[s],” Roth v. Solus

Alternative Asset Mgmt. LP, 124 F. Supp. 3d 315, 323 (S.D.N.Y. 2015) – contractual

provisions that “den[y] an investor the right to acquire more than [ten percent] of

the underlying equity securities of an issuer[] at any one time,” Levy v. Southbrook

Int'l Invs., Ltd., 263 F.3d 10, 12 (2d Cir. 2001). In other words, blockers allow

investors to retain the ability to cumulatively acquire hefty amounts of an issuer’s

stock over a short-term period, without ever having the power to obtain more than

ten percent at any given instant.        See id. at 16 (“[B]eneficial ownership is

determined at any one time, not cumulatively”). By thus extinguishing “the right

to acquire beneficial ownership,” 17 C.F.R. 240 § 13d–3(d)(1)(i), these blockers are

designed to shield investors from section 16(b).

      Because Hudson Bay will thus face section 16(b) liability only if its blockers

were defective, Butterfly attempts to undermine them, arguing first that they were




                                           9
illusory, and second that Hudson Bay used them in an improper attempt to evade

regulatory reporting requirements. We disagree on both fronts.

       B.      Hudson Bay’s Blockers Were Not Illusory.

       Courts disregard “sham” or “illusory” blockers. Levy, 263 F.3d at 17 n.4. As

the district court recognized, there is a “dearth of case[l]aw” regarding when a

blocker qualifies as “sham or illusory.” Sp. App’x at 17. That said, Levy – our

seminal case on blockers – suggests three relevant (and commonsense) factors to

be considered in assessing the viability of the blocker in question: whether (i) the

acquiring party may waive the blocker “in its sole discretion,” 263 F.3d at 17;

(ii) the blocker lacks “a means of ensuring compliance,” id.at 18; and (iii) as a

practical reality, the investor has “ever exceeded the conversion cap,” id. at 12. 1

       All three factors indicate that the blockers at issue here are not illusory. First,

the blockers here are solid contractual provisions, not phantom clauses that



1
  While some courts have relied on an amicus brief that the Securities and Exchange Commission
(the “SEC”) filed in Levy – which listed several factors that might influence whether a blocker
qualifies as illusory, see Br. for SEC as Amicus Curiae Supporting Appellees, Levy v. Southbrook
Int’l Invs., Ltd., 263 F.3d 10 (2d Cir. 2001) (No. 00-7630), 2001 WL 34120374 (“SEC Amicus Br.”) –
“[m]ost courts” have “not expressly applied the criteria set forth in the SEC’s amicus brief,” Peter
J. Romeo & Alan L. Dye, Section 16 Treatise and Reporting Guide, § 2.03[5][l][ii] at 163 (6th ed. 2024).
Furthermore, the three factors that Levy identified largely overlap with three of the SEC’s
proposed factors. See SEC Amicus Br., 2001 WL 34120374, at *24–25 (analyzing whether the
blocker (i) “lacks an enforcement mechanism,” (ii) is “easily waivable,” and (iii) “has not been
adhered to in practice,” among other possible concerns); Butterfly Br. at 25–41 (arguing those
three factors).


                                                  10
Hudson Bay could quietly waive without BBBY’s consent. Remarkably, Butterfly

contends that the blockers were wafer-thin because they could have been “waived

or amended like any other contract.” Butterfly Br. at 30. But the mere fact that the

parties could theoretically amend a contractual clause is not enough to make it

illusory; to hold otherwise would render virtually every clause of every contract a

sham. That explains why Levy focused on whether the alleged beneficial owner

could have waived or nullified the clause in “its sole discretion” – not on whether

the parties could have bilaterally changed their contract (as parties can always do

with any contract). 263 F.3d at 17; see also Lend Lease (US) Const. LMB v. Zurich Am.

Ins. Co., 28 N.Y.3d 675, 684 (2017) (“[A]n illusory contract . . . is[] an agreement in

which one party gives as consideration a promise that is so insubstantial as to

impose no obligation.” (internal quotation marks omitted and alteration

adopted)).

      Second, they contain “a means of ensuring compliance,” id. at 18; indeed,

under the blockers, any acquisition of securities above ten percent is automatically

“null and void and treated as if never made,” J. App’x at 31 (internal quotation

marks omitted). And while Butterfly insists that “[e]nforcement of the blockers

depended entirely on self-policing by Hudson Bay,” and that the Side Letter –




                                          11
which required BBBY to honor Hudson Bay’s conversion and exercise requests

without demanding additional information – “actively disable[d]” BBBY’s ability

to “monitor[]” Hudson Bay’s compliance with the blockers, Butterfly Br. at 26, 30,

we have never found that a contractual clause is illusory simply because one party

cannot actively audit the other’s compliance in real time. On the contrary, Levy

(i) simply examined whether the contract at issue included mechanisms that

would prevent the investor from acquiring more than ten percent of the company’s

stock, and (ii) concluded that the investor’s own “ability to revoke a requested

conversion to the extent that full exercise would exceed the cap” sufficed. See 263

F.3d at 18. Here, the blockers go one step further than those in Levy, since they

automatically nullify any above-the-threshold acquisition. Finally, every time that

Hudson Bay attempted to exercise a warrant or convert preferred stock, it certified

that it was not amassing more than 9.99% of BBBY’s common stock.

      Finally, the Complaint does not plausibly allege that Hudson Bay ever

actually exceeded the ten-percent cap. Indeed, the trading records attached to the

complaint suggest that Hudson Bay’s end-of-day beneficial ownership always

stayed below that threshold. To be sure, Butterfly engages in some dubious math

to suggest otherwise by calculating Hudson Bay’s percentage of ownership to




                                        12
include shares that Hudson Bay had “already agreed to sell” but still technically

held. Butterfly Br. at 36. But that methodology ignores the definition of beneficial

ownership, which turns on whether the party in question enjoys “[i]nvestment

power . . . to dispose, or direct the disposition of, [a] security.” See 17 C.F.R. 240

§ 13d–3(a)(2); id. at § 240.16a–1(a)(1). 2        Here, Hudson Bay clearly lacked the

“power to dispose” of securities that it had already sold. See, e.g., Avalon Holdings

Corp. v. Gentile, 597 F. Supp. 3d 640, 650–51 (S.D.N.Y. 2022) (“[I]t is the moment the

trading decision is made, instead of the technicalities of stock transfers, such as the

passing of title or the exchange of the shares, that governs the construction of

[section] 16(b).” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

       Butterfly nevertheless asserts that “at 9:27 a.m. on February 10, 2023,

Hudson Bay had 10.1% of BBBY’s outstanding common stock just sitting in its

brokerage account.” Butterfly Br. at 36; see J. App’x at 58. But where shares happen

to be “just sitting” is not the test for determining beneficial ownership. Rather, as

discussed above, we must look to whether Hudson Bay had already sold any of

this stock, regardless of whether the shares were still briefly transiting through its



2An investor’s voting power can also establish its beneficial ownership. See 17 C.F.R. 240 § 13d–
3(a)(1). But Butterfly does not argue that Hudson Bay had the ability to vote any shares in excess
of 9.99% of BBBY’s common stock. Nor could it, because the blockers expressly stripped it of that
power.


                                               13
account.    And Butterfly’s complaint clearly alleges that Hudson Bay was

continuously selling shares to offset its acquisitions. Indeed, Butterfly concedes

that Hudson Bay’s “exercise requests” leading up to the February snapshot “were

staggered with intervening sales.” J. App’x at 58; see id. at 281–82 (chart tracking

“[a]dvance [s]ales” of millions of shares).

      On a more fundamental level, Butterfly repeatedly faults the district court

for overly-focusing on the “blockers’ text.” Butterfly Br. at 25. Pointing to a single

sentence of dicta in a footnote in Levy – which explained that “[t]he commercial

substance of the transaction rather than its form must be considered” to “guard

against sham transactions,” 263 F.3d at 18 n.4 (internal quotation marks omitted)

– Butterfly contends that we have endorsed a substance-over-form, multi-factor

standard that focuses less on the text of the blocker, and more on how it functioned

“in practice,” Butterfly Br. at 18.

      But that is not what Levy held. For starters, the footnote highlighted by

Butterfly was quoting another case – Bershad v. McDonough – which was itself

simply explaining the uncontroversial principle that “an insider” may not

“disguise[] the effective transfer of stock” via artifices like shell companies or

proxies. 428 F.2d 693, 697 (7th Cir. 1970); see infra Part II.C. Moreover, the Supreme




                                         14
Court has repeatedly underscored that section 16(b) “imposes liability without

fault [only] within its narrowly drawn limits,” Foremost-McKesson, Inc. v. Provident

Sec. Co., 423 U.S. 232, 251 (1976), and that courts should not “exceed a literal,

mechanical application of the statutory text in determining who may be subject to

liability,” Gollust v. Mendell, 501 U.S. 115, 122 (1991) (internal quotation marks

omitted). In light of that guidance, we will not abandon the plain text of the public-

offering documents – which defines and limits Hudson Bay’s “right to acquire

beneficial ownership,” 17 C.F.R. 240 § 13d–3(d)(1)(i) – for an uncertain standard

focused on how the blockers could have functioned ineffectively in practice, absent

specific allegations that they in fact did so.

      Not surprisingly, we have interpreted and assessed contracts by looking to

their text. See Levy, 263 F.3d at 17–18. And while Butterfly criticizes the district

court for engaging in analysis that would “give[] a free pass to essentially any

competently drafted blocker,” Butterfly Br. at 18, a comprehensive and legally

binding blocker should generally insulate a defendant from section 16(b) liability.

It is only when the parties have ignored the terms of their contract and allowed

the investor to “exceed[] the conversion cap” that we will look beyond the

otherwise binding language of the blocker. Levy, 263 F.3d at 12. Thus, to survive




                                          15
a motion to dismiss, a plaintiff must allege that a facially unambiguous and self-

executing blocker has in fact failed in practice – not merely speculate that the parties

could hypothetically waive the blocker or that the investor could breach the

contract without the other knowing about it until after the fact.

      C.     The Blockers Were Not Part of an Evasive Scheme.

      In a last-ditch effort to invalidate the blockers, Butterfly turns to SEC Rule

13d-3(b). See 17 C.F.R. § 240.13d-3(b). That Rule kicks in whenever an investor

“plan[s] or scheme[s] to evade” various statutory “reporting requirements,” see 15

U.S.C. §§ 78m(d) & (g), which are triggered by beneficial ownership above certain

percentages. To thwart such schemes, the Rule treats “[a]ny person” who uses

“any . . . contract, arrangement, or device” to “prevent[] the vesting of” beneficial

ownership as, in fact, enjoying such ownership. Pointing to this Rule, Butterfly

contends that Hudson Bay used the blockers to “execute a comprehensive plan of

disclosure evasion,” and that Hudson Bay should thus be deemed the beneficial

owner of BBBY’s common stock. Butterfly Br. at 19.

      But Butterfly confuses “plan[s] or scheme[s],” 17 C.F.R. § 240.13d-3(b), that

conceal a defendant’s effective ownership with contractual provisions that prevent

an investor from owning a security in the first place. That difference figured




                                          16
prominently in Judge Winter’s lengthy concurrence in CSX Corp. v. Children's

Investment Fund Management (UK) LLP, 654 F.3d 276 (2d Cir. 2011) – which both

parties cite approvingly, see, e.g., Butterfly Br. at 48; Hudson Bay Br. at 49. There,

Judge Winter explained that Rule 13d-3(b) applies only when “the transaction . . .

[involves a] substantial equivalence of the rights of ownership relevant to control, or

include[s] steps that stop short of, or conceal, the vesting of ownership, while

nevertheless ensuring that such ownership will vest at the signal of the would-be

owner.” CSX Corp., 654 F.3d at 305 (Winter, J., concurring) (emphasis added). Not

surprisingly, Judge Winter focused on secret side deals, informal arrangements

with straw buyers, and similar “sham[s]” designed to obscure an investor’s control

and contravene the Rule. Id. at 304. Judge Winter distinguished those nefarious

transactions from benign arrangements in which “the underlying transaction does

not provide the party with the substantial equivalence of the rights of ownership

relevant to control.” Id. at 305.

      Judge Winter’s view aligns with Supreme Court precedent, which expressly

allows “investor[s] [to] structure[] . . . transaction[s] with the intent of avoiding

liability under [section] 16(b).” Reliance Elec. Co. v. Emerson Elec. Co., 404 U.S. 418,

422 (1972). And we ourselves have blessed the use of effective blockers. See Levy,




                                          17
263 F.3d at 12. An investor is thus clearly free to limit its ownership rights so as

not to take on regulatory responsibility; what it may not do is “conceal[] the vesting

of ownership” to evade its duties. CSX Corp., 654 F.3d at 305.

      Recognizing this problem, Butterfly makes one final bid to save its

complaint by arguing that Hudson Bay was hiding such de facto ownership rights.

In Butterfly’s telling, the Side Letter secretly superseded the terms of the public-

offering documents, giving Hudson Bay the unlimited “right to acquire” as much

stock as it wanted – despite the blockers’ ten-percent cap. Butterfly Br. at 49

(noting that Side Letter “said something very different” from public-offering

documents). But that is simply not what the Side Letter did: that ancillary contract

(i) expressly required BBBY to “honor” Hudson Bay’s requests to exercise its

warrants or convert its preferred stock only “in accordance with the terms” of the

public-offering documents (including the blockers); and (ii) noted that its terms

did not supersede or in any way alter the public-offering documents. J. App’x at

221–22, 225 (emphasis added). So, while the Side Letter required BBBY to hand

over its common stock “in such amounts as [Hudson Bay] specified,” that term

was clearly subject to BBBY’s and Hudson Bay’s other agreements. Id. at 222.




                                         18
      In short, far from covertly poking a hole in the blockers, the Side Letter

expressly preserved them. And because these blockers prevented Hudson Bay

from ever enjoying “the substantial equivalence” of beneficial ownership, CSX

Corp., 654 F.3d at 305, Rule 13d-3(b) plays no role here.

                                III.   CONCLUSION

      For the foregoing reasons, we AFFIRM the judgment of the district court

dismissing Butterfly’s claim.




                                         19
