               FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

In re: CRAIN WALNUT               No. 25-5435
SHELLING, LP
                                    D.C. No.
______________________________
                                 5:24-cv-06147-
____
                                      EJD

CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING, LP,
                                   OPINION
          Petitioner.

 v.

UNITED STATES DISTRICT
COURT FOR THE NORTHERN
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, SAN
JOSE,

          Respondent.

SUPER MICRO COMPUTER, INC.;
CHARLES LIANG; DAVID
WEIGAND; UNIVERSAL-
INVESTMENT-GESELLSCHAFT
MBH; SURENDRA J. SHAH;
THEODORE C. GROSS;
THEODORE R. GROSS;
VALIKHAN KUNAKBAYEV;
ILLINOIS TREASURER;
2 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


MISSISSIPPI PUBLIC
EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT
SYSTEM; COVEY FINANCIAL,
INC.; PEMBROKE CAPITAL LTD.
CORP.; SOVEREL, INC.; DAVID
BURDETTE; PRITI BHARDWAJ;
ERSTE ASSET MANAGEMENT
GMBH; CHRISTIAN MAHE DE
BERDOUARE; SUPER MICRO
INVESTOR GROUP; JOSEPH
AVERZA; Doctor MITHILESH K.
JHA; NORFOLK COUNTY
RETIREMENT SYSTEM,

             Real Parties in Interest.

             Petition for a Writ of Mandamus

         Argued and Submitted February 12, 2026
                San Francisco, California

                     Filed May 7, 2026

   Before: N. Randy Smith, Jacqueline H. Nguyen, and
           Gabriel P. Sanchez, Circuit Judges.

               Opinion by Judge N.R. Smith
    CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 3


                          SUMMARY*


            Securities Class Action / Mandamus

    The panel denied a petition for a writ of mandamus to
vacate the district court’s orders declining to appoint Crain
Walnut Shelling, LP, as lead plaintiff in a securities fraud
class action under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act (“PSLRA”).
   Applying the Bauman test for deciding whether to grant
mandamus relief, the panel held that the district court did not
commit clear error, and the other Bauman factors did not
demonstrate that mandamus was appropriate.
    The PSLRA established a sequential process for
appointing the lead plaintiff in a securities class
action. First, the district court identifies the movant with the
largest financial interest. Provided that movant makes a
prima facie showing of adequacy and typicality, the court
names them the presumptive lead plaintiff. The process then
becomes adversarial. Competing movants may rebut the
presumption of adequacy and typicality upon proof that the
presumptively most adequate plaintiff will not fairly and
adequately protect the interests of the class or is subject to
unique defenses that render that plaintiff incapable of
adequately representing the class. If the presumption is not
rebutted, then the presumptively most adequate plaintiff
must be appointed lead plaintiff.



*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
4 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


    The panel held that the standard of proof for rebutting
the presumption of adequacy under the PSLRA is
preponderance of the evidence. The district court first
applied an incorrect “genuine and serious doubt” standard,
but in denying reconsideration it reasoned alternatively that
Crain Walnut’s presumption of adequacy had been rebutted
even under the correct presumption of the evidence
standard. In its reconsideration order, the district court held
that the competing plaintiff had rebutted Crain Walnut’s
presumption of adequacy based on two categories of
evidence: (1) filing inaccuracies; and (2) problematic
testimony from Crain Walnut. The panel held that district
court’s determination that Crain Walnut’s adequacy had
been sufficiently rebutted based on the preponderance of the
evidence did not amount to clear error because it did not
leave the panel with a definite and firm conviction that a
mistake had been committed.
    The panel concluded that even if several of the remaining
Bauman factors favored Crain Walnut, the absence of clear
error struck a mortal blow against its petition for a writ of
mandamus.
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 5


                        COUNSEL

David J. Zimmer (argued), Zimmer Citron & Clarke LLP,
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Lucas E. Gilmore and Reed R.
Kathrein, Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, Berkeley,
California; Steve Berman, Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro
LLP, Seattle, Washington; Brian J. Schall and Andrew J.
Brown, The Schall Law Firm, Los Angeles, California; for
Petitioner.
John Rizio-Hamilton (argued), Avi Josefson, Scott R.
Foglietta, Preethi Krishnamurthy, and Gerald H. Silk,
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP, New York,
New York; Jonathan D. Uslaner, Bernstein Litowitz Berger
& Grossmann LLP, Los Angeles, California; Boris Feldman,
Carl P. Hudson, Elena Hadjimichael, and Doru Gavril,
Freshfields US LLP, Redwood City, California; Joshua P.
Davis, Berger Montague PC, San Francisco, California;
Charles H. Linehan, Glancy Prongay Wolke & Rotter LLP,
Los Angeles, California; Adam M. Apton, Levi & Korsinsky
LLP, San Francisco, California; Robert J. Gralewski Jr.,
Kirby McInerney LLP, San Diego, California; Daniel L.
Berger and Caitlin Moyna, Grant & Eisenhofer PA, New
York, New York; Mary E. Graham, Grant & Eisenhofer PA,
San Francisco, California; Lesley E. Weaver and Adam C.
McCall, Bleichmar Fonti & Auld LLP, Oakland, California;
David R. Kaplan, Saxena White PA, Solana Beach,
California; Jennifer Pafiti, Pomerantz LLP, Los Angeles,
California; Eric J. Belfi and Francis P. McConville, Labaton
Keller Sucharow LLP, New York, New York; Alex J.
Tramontano, Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP,
San Diego, California; for Real Parties in Interest.
6 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


                          OPINION

N.R. SMITH, Senior Circuit Judge:

    Crain Walnut Shelling, LP (“Crain Walnut”) petitions
for a writ of mandamus to vacate the district court orders,
declining to appoint Crain Walnut as lead plaintiff in an
underlying securities fraud class action under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act (“PSLRA”), 15 U.S.C.
§ 78u-4. We deny the petition because the district court did
not commit clear error and because the other Bauman factors
do not demonstrate that mandamus is appropriate.
    That said, we write to clarify an issue often confronted
by district courts: what is the standard of proof for rebutting
the presumption of adequacy and typicality afforded to a
presumptive lead plaintiff under the PSLRA? The PSLRA
established a sequential process for appointing the lead
plaintiff in a securities class action. First, the district court
identifies the movant with the largest financial interest (i.e.,
the “loss leader”), and provided that movant makes a prima
facie showing of adequacy and typicality, the court names
them the presumptive lead plaintiff.                15 U.S.C.
§ 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(iii)(I); Fed. R. Civ. P. 23. The process then
becomes adversarial. Competing movants may rebut the
presumption of adequacy and typicality “upon proof by a
member of the purported plaintiff class that the
presumptively most adequate plaintiff . . . will not fairly and
adequately protect the interests of the class; or . . . is subject
to unique defenses that render such plaintiff incapable of
adequately representing the class.”                 Id. § 78u-
4(a)(3)(B)(iii)(II). If the presumption is not rebutted, the
presumptively most adequate plaintiff must be appointed
lead plaintiff. Id. § 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(i). The standard of proof
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 7


for rebutting the presumption of adequacy under the PSLRA
is preponderance of the evidence.
    The district court mistakenly applied a lowered “genuine
and serious doubt” standard to rebut the presumption of the
lead plaintiff’s adequacy in this case. However, in the
alternative, it also applied the correct standard and
determined that the evidence put forth by the opposing party
demonstrated by a preponderance of evidence that the
presumptive lead plaintiff was inadequate.
          Factual and Procedural Background
    On August 30, 2024, Joseph Averza filed the first claim
in a putative class action alleging federal securities claims
against Super Micro and its executives. Members of the
putative class filed ten separate motions for appointment as
lead plaintiff, including both Crain Walnut and Universal.
Over time, each member withdrew its petition or filed
statements of non-opposition except for Crain Walnut and
Universal.
    On December 12, 2024, the district court entered an
order that evaluated Crain Walnut’s lead plaintiff motion and
Universal’s opposition to that motion under the PSLRA’s
framework. The district court found that Crain Walnut’s
“$49 million in losses from its investment in Super Micro
securities . . . dwarfs Universal’s calculated loss of
approximately $12 million, as well as every other lead
plaintiff movant’s calculated loss.” The district court then
held that Crain Walnut had made a prima facie showing of
adequacy and typicality under Rule 23(a) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure and was thus “presumptively the
most adequate plaintiff.”
8 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


    Universal challenged Crain Walnut’s adequacy,
specifically questioning the statements (in a sworn
declaration) of Charles Crain Jr. (“Mr. Crain”), the CEO of
Crain Walnut, that he was the “sole” owner of Crain Walnut,
despite public records indicating that Crain Walnut had a
General Partner and may be part of a network of interrelated
entities. The district court concluded that Universal had not
sufficiently rebutted the presumption of Crain Walnut’s
adequacy, but that “it ha[d] demonstrated a reasonable basis”
for questioning it. Accordingly, the district court determined
that “discovery [was] necessary before the Court [could]
make a final decision.”1
    Discovery proved problematic for Crain Walnut. During
Mr. Crain’s deposition as Crain Walnut’s Rule 30(b)(6)
representative, Mr. Crain had the following exchange with
Universal’s counsel:

        Q: Okay. Does [Crain Walnut] have
        possession, custody or control
        over your personal financial records?
        A: Could you repeat the question?
        Q: Sure. Does [Crain Walnut]                   have
        possession, custody or control
        over your personal financial records?
        A: No.



1
  The PSLRA permits discovery into the presumptive lead plaintiff’s
adequacy if the movant can “demonstrate[] a reasonable basis for a
finding that the presumptively most adequate plaintiff is incapable of
adequately representing the class.” 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(iv).
    CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 9


          Q: If [Crain Walnut] is required to produce
          your financial records,
          your personal ones, will you produce them?
          A: Could you repeat the question?
          Q: If [Crain Walnut] is required to produce
          your personal financial
          records, will you produce them?
          A: No

    Mr. Crain’s deposition also revealed inconsistencies with
Crain Walnut’s supposed organizational structure. In an
attachment to Crain Walnut’s opening statement, Mr. Crain
certified that he was the “sole owner” and “Chief Executive
Officer” of Crain Walnut. After Universal pointed out
inconsistencies with the purported organizational structure,
Mr. Crain clarified in a declaration that the General Partner
of Crain Walnut is “Nuez Progesivo, Inc., an entity which is
100% owned by Grupo Progresivo, Inc., which is an entity
that is 100% owned by me, Charles Crain, Jr.” However, Mr.
Crain later testified to a different ownership structure
regarding Grupo Progresivo, Inc. and Crain Walnut. This
newly discovered structure was inconsistent with Crain
Walnut’s prior certifications and the district court’s Civil
Local Rule 3-15 submission. Civil L.R. 3-15(b)(2). 2
Further, Mr. Crain had failed to disclose the existence of
Nuez Progresivo, Inc., Grupo Progresivo, Inc., Crain Walnut

2
  N.D. Cal. Civil Local Rule 3-15(b)(2) requires disclosure of “any
persons, associations of persons, firms, partnerships, corporations
(including, but not limited to, parent corporations), or any other
entities . . . known by the party to have . . . a financial interest of any kind
in [the action] or in a party to the proceeding.”
10 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


Shelling, Inc., or his revocable trust through the Rule 3-15
submission, despite his deposition testimony that these
entities had a financial interest in the litigation. Crain
Walnut never corrected the errors in its Rule 3-15
submission.
    On June 26, 2025, the district court entered another order
analyzing Crain Walnut’s lead plaintiff motion. The order
followed the PLSRA’s sequential process, and the court once
again determined that Crain Walnut was the presumptive
lead plaintiff. The district court then adopted a lowered
“genuine and serious doubt” standard for rebutting a
presumption of adequacy under the PSLRA, citing a lack of
controlling precedent. Averza v. Super Micro Computer,
Inc., 788 F. Supp. 3d 1060, 1072–74 (N.D. Cal. 2025) (citing
In re Cavanaugh, 306 F.3d 726, 732–33 (9th Cir. 2002); In
re Mersho, 6 F.4th 891, 900–01 (9th Cir. 2021)). The district
court reasoned that such a standard “is consistent with the
principles governing choice of a standard of proof” and
Ninth Circuit precedent. Id. at 1073. Using this lowered
standard of proof, the district court determined that
Universal had rebutted the presumption of Crain Walnut’s
adequacy and denied its lead plaintiff motion. Id. at 1084.
The district court explained that “concerns about Crain
Walnut’s lack of care and unwillingness to participate in
discovery [left] the Court with genuine and serious doubts
that Crain Walnut [would] adequately meet all the
obligations that come with representing the putative class as
lead plaintiff.” Id. (emphasis added).
    On July 10, 2025, the district court entered an order that
appointed Universal as the lead plaintiff, finding that
Universal’s “pleadings and declarations” were “sufficient to
establish” a prima facie showing of adequacy and typicality.
No party ever attempted to rebut Universal’s adequacy, and
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 11


the court undertook no further analysis. In the same order,
the district court granted a motion filed by Crain Walnut for
leave to file a motion for reconsideration of the denial of its
lead plaintiff motion.
    On August 5, 2025, the district court denied the motion
for reconsideration. While the district court maintained that
the “genuine and serious doubt” standard was properly
applied in accordance with our precedent, it also
alternatively determined that Mr. Crain’s deposition
testimony and the filing inaccuracies cumulatively
demonstrated that Crain Walnut was inadequate to be lead
plaintiff even under a preponderance of the evidence
standard.
                          Discussion
    I. Writ of Mandamus
    We have authority to issue a writ of mandamus under the
All Writs Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1651. “A writ is an extraordinary
remedy and Petitioners bear the burden of showing that their
right to it is ‘clear and indisputable.’” Mersho, 6 F.4th at 897
(quoting In re Boon Glob. Ltd., 923 F.3d 643, 649 (9th Cir.
2019)). To determine whether mandamus is appropriate, we
consider the five Bauman factors:
        (1) The party seeking the writ has no other
        adequate means, such as a direct appeal, to
        attain the relief he or she desires. (2) The
        petitioner will be damaged or prejudiced in a
        way not correctable on appeal. (This
        guideline is closely related to the first.)
        (3) The district court’s order is clearly
        erroneous as a matter of law. (4) The district
        court’s order is an oft-repeated error, or
12 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


        manifests a persistent disregard of the federal
        rules. (5) The district court’s order raises new
        and important problems, or issues of law of
        first impression.

Bauman v. U.S. Dist. Ct., 557 F.2d 650, 654–55 (9th Cir.
1977) (simplified).
             i. Bauman’s Third Factor: Clear Error
    We begin our analysis of whether to grant the writ with
Bauman’s third factor, clear error, because such analysis may
be dispositive. Boon, 923 F.3d at 649. “The clear error
standard is significantly deferential and is not met unless the
reviewing court is left with a ‘definite and firm conviction
that a mistake has been committed.’” Cohen v. U.S. Dist. Ct.
for N. Dist. of Cal., 586 F.3d 703, 708 (9th Cir. 2009)
(quoting Concrete Pipe & Prods. of Cal., Inc. v. Constr.
Laborers Pension Tr. for S. Cal., 508 U.S. 602, 623 (1993)).
    Crain Walnut argues the district court clearly erred on
three occasions: (1) when it applied a sub-preponderance
standard of review in denying Crain Walnut’s lead plaintiff
motion; (2) when it determined that the available evidence,
even under a preponderance of the evidence standard,
showed Crain Walnut’s inadequacy; and (3) when it applied
an unfair “double standard” to Universal’s lead plaintiff
motion.3 We will address the arguments in turn.


3
  Crain Walnut argues that it was subjected to a “double standard” based
on the district court’s failure to engage in a more fulsome analysis of
Universal’s adequacy. Crain Walnut was not subjected to a double
standard. As the district court determined, no lead plaintiff candidate
challenged Universal’s adequacy. The district court had no basis to
apply further scrutiny to Universal.
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 13


               1. Standard of Proof: Preponderance of
                  the Evidence
    To determine whether the district court committed a clear
error in applying the “genuine and serious doubt” standard,
it is necessary to first establish what is the controlling
standard of proof for rebutting the presumption of a loss
leader’s adequacy and typicality under the PSLRA. Here,
the district court erred by deviating from the “default
standard of proof in American civil litigation,”
preponderance of the evidence, which was established by the
Supreme Court nearly a century ago. E.M.D. Sales, Inc. v.
Carrera, 604 U.S. 45, 50 (2025). Similarly, our precedent
holds that this standard generally applies in civil litigation.
Olean Wholesale Grocery Coop., Inc. v. Bumble Bee Foods
LLC, 31 F.4th 651, 664 (9th Cir. 2022) (en banc).
    The PSLRA states that a “presumption [of adequacy
under § 78u-4] may be rebutted only upon proof by a
member of the purported class that the presumptively most
adequate plaintiff (aa) will not fairly and adequately protect
the interests of the class; or (bb) is subject to unique
defenses.” 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(iii)(II) (emphasis
added). The term “only upon proof” does not prescribe a
specific evidentiary standard, and “[i]n the absence of
direction from Congress or the Constitution, it is up to the
court to prescribe the burden of proof.” Olean, 31 F.4th at
664 (citing Herman & MacLean v. Huddleston, 459 U.S.
375, 389–90 (1983)). We have not expressly specified the
governing standard of proof for adequacy determination
under the PSLRA, nor have the parties identified other
circuit law settling the issue. However, neither Supreme
Court precedent, our precedent, nor a balancing of the
interests give us reason to deviate from the “default” burden
of proof in civil litigation—preponderance of the evidence—
14 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


for rebutting the loss leader’s presumption of adequacy and
typicality under the PSLRA. See E.M.D. Sales, Inc., 604
U.S. at 50.4
                 a. Supreme Court Precedent
    It is well established that we apply preponderance of the
evidence as the default standard of proof in civil litigation.
See Herman, 459 U.S. at 387 (“In a typical civil suit for
money damages, plaintiffs must prove their case by a
preponderance of the evidence.”); see also E.M.D. Sales,
Inc., 604 U.S. at 49–50 (citing sources from as early as 1867
recognizing this standard). In E.M.D. Sales, the Supreme
Court reaffirmed this principle and held that we apply
preponderance of the evidence in civil cases unless we have
indications that another standard should apply. E.M.D.
Sales, Inc., 604 U.S. at 50–51. Specifically, the Supreme
Court has delineated the “three main circumstances” where
courts have deviated from the “default” preponderance of the
evidence standard: (1) when the operative statute has
established a heightened standard proof; (2) when the
Constitution has required a heightened standard of proof;
and (3) the “uncommon case” where “the government seeks
to take unusual coercive action—action more dramatic than
entering an award of money damages or other conventional
relief—against an individual.” Id. Neither the PSLRA nor
the Constitution demand a heightened standard of proof in
naming a lead plaintiff, and no coercive government action
occurred in the instant case. Under the Supreme Court’s

4
  Upon reconsideration, the district court engaged in statutory analysis of
the PSLRA to support the establishment of the lowered standard. While
the term “only upon proof” in the PSLRA may be ambiguous, the plain
meaning of the text does not indicate that Congress intended to deviate
from the default preponderance of the evidence standard.
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 15


precedent, preponderance of the evidence is therefore the
correct standard of proof for civil actions of this kind.
  b. Ninth Circuit Precedent: Cavanaugh and Mersho
    In its declaration of the “genuine and serious doubt”
standard, the district court relied on a misreading of
Cavanaugh, 306 F.3d 726, and Mersho, 6 F.4th 891.
Contrary to the district court’s reading, neither case gives
any indication that a standard of proof lower than
preponderance should apply.
    In Cavanaugh, the district court determined that a
plaintiff’s presumption of adequacy had been rebutted based
on evidence that the loss leader’s fee arrangement was less
favorable than other moving plaintiffs. 306 F.3d at 732–33.
We held that the district court “went off the statutory
track . . . by failing to give effect to the presumption” because
the evidence relied upon by the district court relating to the
loss leader’s choice of counsel “is relevant only to determine
whether the presumptive lead plaintiff's choice of counsel is
so irrational, or so tainted by self-dealing or conflict of
interest, as to cast genuine and serious doubt on that
plaintiff’s willingness or ability to perform the functions of
lead plaintiff.” Id. at 731, 733 (emphasis added). Holding
that the fee arrangement did not raise such doubts, we
granted mandamus and ordered the district court to “proceed
based on the presumption that the [loss leader] is the most
adequate.” Id. at 739.
    Two decades later, we again addressed the PSLRA’s lead
plaintiff appointment process in Mersho, 6 F.4th at 898–900.
In Mersho, we considered whether the district court had
properly rebutted the loss leader’s presumption of adequacy
under the PSLRA. Id. at 900–01. The district court “based
its decision on ‘misgivings’ about a lack of cohesion or
16 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


control over counsel” with the presumptive lead plaintiff. Id.
at 901. We held that “[m]isgivings are not evidence that cast
‘genuine and serious doubt on [the] plaintiff’s willingness or
ability to perform the functions of lead plaintiff.’” Id.
(quoting Cavanaugh, 306 F.3d at 733). Accordingly,
“competing movants must point to evidence of inadequacy,”
and “[b]ecause the district court here based its decision only
on speculation . . . it was clear error to find that the
presumption had been rebutted.” Id. at 901–902.
    The district court here relied on Cavanaugh as the
foundation for a “genuine and serious doubt” standard and
on Mersho in its adoption of that language. See Averza, 788
F. Supp. 3d at 1073. In doing so, the district court
improperly lifted “genuine and serious doubt” out of its
context in those cases. Neither Cavanaugh nor Mersho
indicated that a lowered standard of proof should apply, nor
did they establish “genuine and serious doubt” as the guiding
standard of proof in lead-plaintiff cases. In Cavanaugh, we
conditioned that a finding of “genuine and serious doubt” of
the plaintiff’s adequacy must be based on conduct “so
irrational, or so tainted by self-dealing or conflict of interest”
to overcome the presumption. 306 F.3d at 733. Similarly, in
Mersho, we did not suggest that a lower standard of proof
applies when we held that a district court had improperly
rebutted the loss leader’s presumption of adequacy by
“bas[ing] its decision only on speculation.” 6 F.4th at 902.
   In fact, Cavanaugh makes clear that the PSLRA adopted
Rule 23’s standard for adequacy determinations:

        Nothing in our pre-Reform Act caselaw even
        remotely suggests that a district court may
        find a plaintiff to be inadequate to serve as
        class representative under Rule 23(a) because
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 17


       the district court believes he should have
       hired a different lawyer or the same lawyer
       for less. The Reform Act did not change this
       standard; rather, it adopted the typicality and
       adequacy requirements of Rule 23 in haec
       verba. We conclude, therefore, that the
       Reform Act did not change the standard for
       adequacy, and that the adequacy inquiry
       remains the same in determining the lead
       plaintiff in securities cases as in determining
       the class representative in other cases brought
       under Rule 23.

306 F.3d at 736 (emphasis added). We have established that
Rule 23 adequacy determinations are governed by a
preponderance of the evidence. See Olean, 31 F.4th at 665.
In Olean, we noted that “the application of Rule 23 to certify
a class” does not give rise to a “heightened standard of proof
beyond the traditional preponderance standard.” Id. We
reach a similar conclusion in the context of the lead-plaintiff
determination here.
               c. Balancing of the Interests
    In prescribing the burden of proof, “we must consider
both the allocation of ‘the risk of error between the litigants’
and ‘the relative importance attached to the ultimate
decision.’” Olean, 31 F.4th at 664 (quoting Herman, 459
U.S. at 389).        The Supreme Court has maintained
preponderance of the evidence as the “default” standard of
proof in civil litigation for nearly a century because it
“allows both parties in the mine-run civil case to ‘share the
risk of error in roughly equal fashion.’” E.M.D. Sales, Inc.,
604 U.S. at 50 (quoting Herman, 459 U.S. at 390).
Comparatively, “[a]ny other standard expresses a preference
18 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


for one side’s interests.” Herman, 459 U.S. at 390. For these
reasons, we have held that “the preponderance of the
evidence standard is ‘generally applicable in civil actions.’”
Olean, 31 F.4th at 664 (quoting Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S.
418, 423 (1979)).
    Applying the balancing test to the PSLRA framework,
the interests favor the preponderance of the evidence
standard.      The class certification context provides
instruction. Like the PSLRA’s requirement that a loss leader
be appointed unless an opposing movant demonstrates their
inadequacy or that their claims are atypical, Rule 23(a)
requires that a proposed class representative meet a standard
of adequacy and typicality. Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a). In Olean,
we determined that plaintiffs “must prove the facts necessary
to carry the burden of establishing that the prerequisites of
Rule 23 are satisfied by a preponderance of the evidence.”
31 F.4th at 665. We reasoned that the balance of interests
favored preponderance of the evidence because “Rule 23
does not ‘change plaintiffs’ separate entitlements to relief
nor abridge defendants’ rights’ and, instead, alters ‘only how
the claims are processed.’” Id. at 664–65 (quoting Shady
Grove Orthopedic Assocs., P.A. v. Allstate Ins. Co., 559 U.S.
393, 408 (2010)). The PSLRA operates in the same way.
The determination as to a presumptive lead plaintiff’s
adequacy or typicality under the PSLRA does not change the
plaintiff’s separate entitlements in a securities class action
(the plaintiffs can still vindicate their rights in a separate
action) or abridge the defendant’s rights in any manner. 5

5
 Universal argues that the district court correctly determined that Crain
Walnut has a comparatively narrow interest in its “ability to control the
putative class action,” when measured against the substantive interests
of the putative class because “any settlement or judgment that the lead
plaintiff secures is all they will receive.” Averza, 788 F. Supp. 3d at
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 19


Like a class representative being chosen in the Rule 23
context, the appointment of a lead plaintiff only impacts
“how the claims are processed.” Id. at 665. We hold that the
preponderance of the evidence standard applies to a rebuttal
of the presumption of adequacy under the PSLRA.
                                   ***
     Given our longstanding rule that we apply a
preponderance of the evidence standard of proof in civil
litigation, the application of the “genuine and serious doubt”
standard would have amounted to a clear error had the
district court simply made its ruling based on that standard.
However, in its denial of reconsideration, the district court
did not constrain itself solely to the “genuine and serious
doubt” standard, reasoning alternatively that Crain Walnut’s
presumption of adequacy had been rebutted even under the
correct preponderance of the evidence standard. To
determine whether there was clear error, we now undertake
a “significantly deferential” review of the district court’s
determination that Universal sufficiently rebutted Crain
Walnut’s adequacy by a preponderance of the evidence.
Cohen, 586 F.3d at 708.




1073. Again, a comparison to the class certification context is helpful.
A presumptive lead plaintiff under the PSLRA has a greater interest in
being named the lead plaintiff than any plaintiff in a putative class action
has in being named the class representative because the lead plaintiff
“shall, subject to the approval of the court, select and retain counsel to
represent the class.” See 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(a)(3)(B)(v). That is a
stronger interest than that of a class representative, who works alongside
class counsel but does not select class counsel. See Fed. R. Civ. P. Rule
23(g).
20 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


                2. Application of the Preponderance
                   Standard
    In its reconsideration order, the district court held that
Universal had rebutted Crain Walnut’s presumption of
adequacy based on two categories of evidence: (1) filing
inaccuracies; and (2) problematic testimony from Crain
Walnut. We hold that the district court’s determination that
Crain Walnut’s adequacy had been sufficiently rebutted does
not amount to a clear error.
     First, Crain Walnut compromised its credibility by filing
inaccurate documents and by later failing to correct its
inaccuracies. In a supporting declaration to Crain Walnut’s
opening statement, Mr. Crain claimed to be the sole owner
of Crain Walnut. After Universal pointed out inconsistencies
in that statement, Crain Walnut attempted to clarify its
ownership structure, yet still failed to get it right. Mr. Crain
submitted a second declaration that identified each of the
corporate entities in its ownership structure—Nuez
Progresivo, Inc.; Grupo Progresivo, Inc.; and Crain Walnut
Shelling, Inc.—and represented that he owned 100% of
Crain Walnut. But it was later revealed in Crain Walnut’s
30(b)(6) deposition that Mr. Crain had incorrectly informed
the district court that he was the 100% owner of Grupo
Progresivo. In actuality, his trust had the ownership rights.
The district court found that Crain Walnut failed to present
its correct ownership structure to the district court even after
“Universal made its doubts about Crain Walnut’s ownership
structure a centerpiece of its opposition to Crain Walnut’s
motion.” Crain Walnut also failed to report its correct
ownership structure in its Civil Local Rule 3-15 certification,
which requires parties to report any “ownership of a legal or
equitable interest, however small.” 28 U.S.C. § 455(d)(4)
(incorporated into the Civil Local Rules by reference); Civil
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 21


L.R. 3-15(b)(2). Crain Walnut never corrected its Rule 3-15
submission.     While such misrepresentations may be
immaterial to the underlying claims of securities fraud, the
representations nonetheless constitute evidence of
inadequacy because they demonstrate a lack of credibility
and ability to work with the court.
    Second, Crain Walnut’s 30(b)(6) deposition correctly
raised an issue in the eyes of the district court. During the
deposition, Mr. Crain was asked “if [Crain Walnut] is
required to produce your personal financial records, will you
produce them?” Mr. Crain responded clearly, “no.” That
answer amounts to testimony that Crain Walnut would refuse
to comply with a court order compelling discovery. Crain
Walnut now argues that Mr. Crain was confused by the
question because it did not directly reference a court order,
and that the speculative nature of the question lowers its
evidentiary value. However, as the district court found, the
question was clear, and his response was unequivocal.
    Crain Walnut argues that the facts of this case are on par
with those we deemed insufficient to rebut the loss leader’s
presumption of adequacy in both Cavanaugh and Mersho.
However, the district court relied upon two discrete areas of
evidence that call into question the adequacy of Crain
Walnut and that push the facts of this case well beyond the
perceived inadequacies noted in either of those cases. In
Cavanaugh, the only evidence relied upon by the district
court in rebutting the loss leader’s presumption was that the
presumptive lead plaintiff had entered into a comparatively
less advantageous fee arrangement than other plaintiffs,
which we deemed an improper “freewheeling comparison”
of the lead plaintiff applicants. 306 F.3d at 732. And in
Mersho, we held that a district court improperly rebutted a
lead plaintiff’s presumption of adequacy based on
22 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


speculative “misgivings” about the presumptive lead
plaintiff’s “ability to control the litigation without undue
influence from counsel.” 6 F.4th at 897 (quoting Borteanu
v. Nikola Corp., 507 F. Supp. 3d 1128, 1137–38 (D. Ariz.
2020)).
    Here, the district court was not engaging in a
“freewheeling comparison” between the movants, nor did it
simply rely on “misgivings” because, unlike Cavanaugh and
Mersho, the district court in this case relied on two discrete
areas of evidence that directly implicated Crain Walnut’s
adequacy. Crain Walnut’s arguments effectively amount to
a disagreement with the district court’s factual conclusions,
which falls short of establishing that the district court made
the “clear error” required for a writ of mandamus to be
granted. See Cordoza v. Pac. States Steel Corp., 320 F.3d
989, 1001 (9th Cir. 2003) (“This attack at best raises a factual
dispute, not the prospect that the district court made a clear
error requiring a writ of mandamus.”).
    The district court’s determination that Crain Walnut’s
adequacy had been sufficiently rebutted based on the
preponderance of the evidence does not leave us with a
“definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been
committed.” Cohen, 586 F.3d at 708 (simplified). We
therefore find that the district court did not clearly err.
    Based on the foregoing, we deny Crain Walnut’s petition
for a writ of mandamus because the absence of Bauman’s
third factor is dispositive. See Boon, 923 F.3d at 649; see
also In re Van Dusen, 654 F.3d 838, 841 (9th Cir. 2011)
(explaining that “clear error as a matter of law[] is a
necessary condition for granting a writ of mandamus”).
Because Bauman counsels that we address all its factors, we
proceed to do so.
   CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ 23


        ii. Remaining Bauman Factors
    The first and second Bauman factors favor a grant of
mandamus. “The first Bauman factor highlights the need for
mandamus to be used only when no other realistic alternative
is (or was) available to a petitioner.” Cole v. U.S. Dist. Ct.
For Dist. of Idaho, 366 F.3d 813, 817 (9th Cir. 2004). The
second Bauman factor is similar but focuses on whether the
harm to petitioners cannot be corrected on a direct appeal.
See San Jose Mercury News, Inc. v. U.S. Dist. Ct., 187 F.3d
1096, 1099 (9th Cir. 1999). These factors are considered
together. Id. As we previously determined in Mersho, Crain
Walnut has “no realistic alternative to challenge the district
court’s decision absent mandamus relief.” 6 F.4th at 902.
Interlocutory appeals are “unavailable for an order
designating lead plaintiff.” Id. (citing Z-Seven Fund, Inc. v.
Motorcar Parts & Accessories, 231 F.3d 1215, 1218–19 (9th
Cir. 2000)). Thus, “it is fair to conclude that the plaintiffs do
not have an adequate remedy, other than mandamus, from
the district court’s order,” Cavanaugh, 306 F.3d at 740
(Wallace, J., concurring), and that these factors weigh in
Crain Walnut’s favor.
    “[T]he fourth and fifth Bauman factors are often
mutually exclusive.” San Jose Mercury News, Inc., 187 F.3d
at 1103. “The fourth factor looks to whether the case
involves an ‘oft-repeated error,’ while the fifth factor
considers whether the petition raises new and important
problems or issues of first impression.” Mersho, 6 F.4th at
903 (quoting Bauman, 557 F.2d at 655). Here, the fourth
factor is not met because Crain Walnut has not pointed to any
case law showing that courts have “oft-repeated” the error of
applying a “genuine and serious doubt” standard to the
rebuttal of a lead-plaintiff presumption. However, we do
face an important issue of first impression in considering this
24 CRAIN WALNUT SHELLING V. USDC FOR THE N. DIST. OF CA, SJ


petition, because no circuit court has definitively established
the standard of proof required to rebut the PSLRA’s
presumption in favor of the loss leader. Therefore, the fifth
factor weighs in favor of granting Crain Walnut’s petition.
    Even if several of the remaining Bauman factors favor
Crain Walnut, the absence of clear error strikes a mortal blow
against its petition for mandamus. See In re U.S., 791 F.3d
945, 955 (9th Cir. 2015) (explaining that “the absence of
factor three—clear error as a matter of law—will always
defeat a petition for mandamus . . . .”) (quoting DeGeorge v.
U.S. Dist. Ct., 219 F.3d 930, 934 (9th Cir. 2000)).
                         Conclusion
    Preponderance of the evidence is the correct standard for
rebutting the presumption of adequacy afforded to a
presumptive lead plaintiff under the PSLRA. The district
court applied that standard in its reconsideration order and
did not clearly err in determining that Crain Walnut’s
presumption of adequacy had been rebutted based on the
available evidence. We therefore deny the petition for writ
of mandamus. Parties are to bear their own costs.
   WRIT DENIED.
