                    FOR PUBLICATION

     UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
          FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,                         No. 24-7529
                                                    D.C. No.
               Plaintiff - Appellee,
                                                 3:22-cr-02313-
                                                     RSH-1
    v.

ABDIRAHMAN KHEYRE,
                                                    OPINION
               Defendant - Appellant.

         Appeal from the United States District Court
            for the Southern District of California
         Robert Steven Huie, District Judge, Presiding

            Argued and Submitted March 11, 2026
                    Pasadena, California

                       Filed May 20, 2026

    Before: Richard C. Tallman, Johnnie B. Rawlinson, and
             David F. Hamilton, Circuit Judges. *

                      Per Curiam Opinion


*
 The Honorable David F. Hamilton, United States Circuit Judge for the
Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, sitting by designation.
2                         USA V. KHEYRE


                          SUMMARY **


                          Criminal Law

    The panel affirmed the district court’s denial of
Abdirahman Kheyre’s motion under 18 U.S.C. § 3582(c)(2)
for a sentence reduction based on retroactive Sentencing
Guidelines Amendment 821, which limited the impact of
“status points” on criminal history.
    The district court denied the motion because Supreme
Court precedent holds that the Sentencing Commission’s
policy statement regarding § 3582(c)(2) proceedings, USSG
§ 1B1.10, is binding, and that policy statement prohibited
reduction in Kheyre’s circumstances. The district court
concluded, alternatively, that it would not reduce Kheyre’s
sentence even if he were eligible.
    Section § 1B1.10 provides that a defendant is eligible for
a reduction only if a retroactive amendment lowered “the
guideline range applicable to that defendant.” Application
Note 1(A) says that the amended guideline range is
determined before consideration of any departure or
variance.
   The panel held that Congress violated neither the
nondelegation doctrine nor the separation of powers by
making the Sentencing Commission’s policy statements
binding on courts in § 3582(c)(2) proceedings.
    Applying Kisor v. Wilkie, 588 U.S. 558 (2019), the panel
held that the text of § 1B1.10 unambiguously does not

**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                        USA V. KHEYRE                         3


include departures when calculating the amended guideline
range. The panel therefore concluded, without reference to
Application Note 1(A), that courts do not include departures
when calculating the amended guideline range in
§ 3582(c)(2) proceedings. Accordingly, the district court
did not err in calculating Kheyre’s amended guideline range
without reference to a departure awarded at his original
sentencing.
    The panel concluded that because Kheyre’s 180-month
sentence was below his amended guideline range, he was,
under U.S.S.G. § 1B1.10(b)(2)(A), ineligible for a
reduction. As the district court properly found that Kheyre
was not eligible for a reduction, the panel did not need to
reach his challenge to the district court’s alternative holding.



                         COUNSEL

Andrew R. Haden (argued) and Paul Benjamin, Assistant
United States Attorneys; Daniel E. Zipp, Assistant United
States Attorney, Chief, Appellate Section, Criminal
Division; Adam Gordon, United States Attorney; Office of
the United States Attorney, United States Department of
Justice, San Diego, California; for Plaintiff-Appellee.
David J. Zugman (argued), Burcham & Zugman, San Diego,
California, for Defendant-Appellant.
4                      USA V. KHEYRE


                         OPINION

PER CURIAM:

    In 2023, Abdirahman Kheyre was sentenced to
180 months in prison. After the United States Sentencing
Commission retroactively amended the Guidelines to reduce
the impact of criminal history status points, Kheyre moved
for a sentence reduction under 18 U.S.C. § 3582(c)(2). The
district court denied his motion because Supreme Court
precedent holds that the Commission’s policy statement
regarding § 3582(c)(2) proceedings is binding, and that
policy statement prohibited a reduction in Kheyre’s
circumstances. See Dillon v. United States, 560 U.S. 817,
819 (2010). Alternatively, the district court concluded that
it would not reduce Kheyre’s sentence even if he were
eligible.
     Kheyre takes issue with both holdings. On appeal, he
contends (1) that Congress violated the nondelegation
doctrine, the separation of powers, or both by making the
Commission’s policy statements binding on courts in
§ 3582(c)(2) proceedings, (2) that the district court erred by
not including a departure when calculating his amended
guideline range, and (3) that the district court failed to
adequately consider his mitigation evidence when reaching
its alternative holding. We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C.
§ 1291 and we affirm.
                              I
    In April 2023, Kheyre pled guilty to one count of
distributing a controlled substance and one count of
possessing a controlled substance with intent to distribute.
In his plea agreement, Kheyre also admitted that his buyer
                             USA V. KHEYRE                              5


 died of an overdose after using the drugs purchased from
 him. At his sentencing hearing, the district court calculated
 his guidelines as follows:

        Offense level                    Criminal history category
        38 (base offense level)          6 points (prior convictions)
        -3 (acceptance of
                                         +2 points (status points)
         responsibility)
Final 35                                 8 points (category IV)

 The resulting guideline range was 235–293 months.
     Consistent with the plea agreement, the parties requested
 a downward departure “for a combination of circumstances”
 under United States Sentencing Guideline (USSG) § 5K2.0.
 They couched the extent of the departure as a two-level
 reduction in his offense level. The district court, adopting
 the “two-level reduction” language, granted the departure
 and sentenced Kheyre to 180 months in prison. 1
     He appealed. 2 A panel of this court vacated the standard
 conditions of supervised release and remanded for the
 district court to orally pronounce any conditions it desired to
 impose on the record. United States v. Kheyre, No. 23-1425,
 2024 WL 2844665, at *1 (9th Cir. June 5, 2024). The panel

 1
   If the departure had effected a two-level reduction in Kheyre’s offense
 level, his advisory guideline range would have been 188–235 months
 based on criminal history category IV and a final offense level of 33. To
 reach the 180-month sentence, the district court started from the
 approximate midpoint of this range (210 months) and varied downward
 by 30 months.
 2
  The issues presented in that appeal are irrelevant to those presented
 here.
6                             USA V. KHEYRE


also vacated special conditions concerning substance abuse
and mental health treatment and remanded for the district
court “to ‘clarify the scope of authority delegated to the
probation officer’ if it elect[ed] to reimpose [those]
conditions.” Id. (quoting United States v. Nishida, 53 F.4th
1144, 1155 (9th Cir. 2022)).
    On remand, Kheyre asked the district court to hold a full
resentencing hearing based on a retroactive amendment to
the Guidelines. While his prior appeal was pending, the
Commission had promulgated and made retroactive
Amendment 821, which limited the impact of “status points”
on criminal history. This eliminated the two status points
Kheyre received and reduced his criminal history category
from IV to III. Kheyre argued this intervening change in the
law entitled him to a de novo resentencing hearing. In the
alternative, he asked the district court to reduce his sentence
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3582(c)(2).
    At the resentencing hearing, the district court denied
Kheyre’s request for de novo resentencing 3 and invited
briefing on the § 3582(c)(2) reduction request. After
briefing, the court denied the motion. It concluded that
United States v. Hernandez-Martinez, 933 F.3d 1126 (9th
Cir. 2019), required it to do so because “the sentence actually
imposed (180 months) is less than the minimum of the
applicable guidelines range as amended (210 months).” In
calculating the amended guideline range, the court did not
include the “two-level” downward departure awarded at
Kheyre’s original sentencing. The court also noted that if
Kheyre were eligible for a reduction, it would deny the
request because “[n]either the change in the advisory
guidelines nor any other factor that has been brought to the

3
    Kheyre does not appeal this denial.
                        USA V. KHEYRE                       7


Court’s attention” would change its assessment of the
appropriate sentence on the facts presented here.
   This appeal followed.
                              II
    Ordinarily, a court “may not modify a term of
imprisonment once it has been imposed.” 18 U.S.C.
§ 3582(c). Congress has created limited exceptions to this
general rule, including the one at issue here:

       in the case of a defendant who has been
       sentenced to a term of imprisonment based on
       a sentencing range that has subsequently
       been lowered by the Sentencing Commission
       . . . , the court may reduce the term of
       imprisonment, after considering the factors
       set forth in [18 U.S.C. §] 3553(a) . . . , if such
       a reduction is consistent with applicable
       policy statements issued by the Sentencing
       Commission.

§ 3582(c)(2).
    Once the Commission promulgates a retroactive
guideline amendment, courts use a two-step inquiry to
determine if a defendant’s sentence should be reduced.
Hernandez-Martinez, 933 F.3d at 1130. The first step looks
to whether the defendant is eligible for relief by determining
whether a reduction “is consistent with applicable policy
statements issued by the Sentencing Commission.” Id.
(quoting § 3582(c)(2)). If the defendant is eligible, the
second step requires the court to decide if a reduction is
warranted based on the § 3553(a) factors. Id. at 1131.
8                           USA V. KHEYRE


   The Commission has issued one policy statement
applicable to § 3582(c)(2) proceedings: USSG § 1B1.10. 4
Under § 1B1.10(a)(1), a defendant is eligible for a reduction
only if a retroactive amendment lowered “the guideline
range applicable to that defendant.” To determine if that
occurred, the court must calculate the guideline range that
would have applied had the amendment “been in effect at the
time the defendant was sentenced . . . leav[ing] all other
guideline application decisions unaffected.” § 1B1.10(b)(1).
    But even if the amendment reduced the applicable
guideline range, the defendant still may not be eligible for a
sentence reduction. Subsection (b)(2) bars courts from
reducing the prison sentence “to a term that is less than the
minimum of the amended guideline range,” unless the
defendant received a sentence below the original range based
on substantial assistance to the government. This means that
a defendant who did not provide substantial assistance is not
eligible for a reduction if his original prison sentence is
below his amended guideline range.
    In 2010, the Supreme Court held that § 1B1.10 remained
binding even after United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220
(2005), rendered the Guidelines advisory in sentencing
proceedings. Dillon, 560 U.S. at 819. Since § 3582(c)(2)
was designed “to authorize only a limited adjustment to an
otherwise final sentence and not a plenary resentencing,” the
Sixth Amendment concerns identified in Booker were not


4
  The 2023 Guidelines Manual was in effect on the date of Kheyre’s
resentencing hearing, but the 2024 Guidelines Manual was in effect
when the district court issued its order denying his sentence reduction
motion. Unless otherwise noted, all citations to the Guidelines are to the
2024 edition of the Manual. The relevant provisions are the same in the
2023 and 2024 editions.
                      USA V. KHEYRE                      9


implicated. Id. at 826–30. Thus, § 1B1.10 remained binding
on courts through § 3582(c)(2)’s command that reductions
be “consistent with applicable policy statements issued by
the Sentencing Commission.” Id. at 826. We embraced
Dillon’s holding in Hernandez-Martinez, 933 F.3d at 1130–
31.
                            III
    Kheyre first argues that the Commission cannot impose
a hard floor on sentence reductions because, under the
nondelegation doctrine and the separation of powers,
Congress cannot give an agency (the Commission) authority
to limit courts’ sentencing discretion. We review these
questions of law de novo. United States v. Davis, 739 F.3d
1222, 1223 (9th Cir. 2014).
                            A
    Kheyre argues that Congress violated the nondelegation
doctrine because the authorizing statutes—18 U.S.C.
§ 3582(c)(2) and 28 U.S.C. § 994(o)—lack an “intelligible
principle” allowing the Commission to limit judicial
sentencing discretion. This challenge fails because the
Supreme Court has already held that the guidance provided
in 28 U.S.C. § 994 sufficiently supports the delegation of
authority to the Commission to formulate the Guidelines.
Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 371–79 (1989).
Although the Guidelines are now advisory in sentencing
hearings post-Booker, they were binding when Mistretta was
decided. This means the Court has already decided that
Congress provided an intelligible principle sufficient to
support delegating authority to the Commission to impose
mandatory limits on judicial sentencing discretion. That is
fatal to Kheyre’s nondelegation argument.
10                      USA V. KHEYRE


    Kheyre contends that the Supreme Court’s recent
decisions in Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo, 603 U.S.
369 (2024), and SEC v. Jarkesy, 603 U.S. 109 (2024),
establish that delegations authorizing an agency to impose
mandatory limits on judicial discretion are unconstitutional.
But neither case resolved this type of challenge
(nondelegation) or a challenge to this agency (the
Commission). Loper Bright held that courts should not defer
to an agency’s interpretation of ambiguous statutory text.
603 U.S. at 412–13. And the Court did not reach the
nondelegation argument presented in Jarkesy. See 603 U.S.
at 121. Rather, it resolved the case under the Seventh
Amendment, holding that the right to a jury trial forbade the
Securities and Exchange Commission from seeking civil
penalties for fraud in an internal administrative adjudication.
Id. at 120–21. As neither case addressed a nondelegation
issue, Mistretta’s holding remains binding. See Fidelity
Expl. & Prod. Co. v. United States, 506 F.3d 1182, 1186 (9th
Cir. 2007) (“[W]e must follow the Supreme Court precedent
that directly controls, leaving to the Court the prerogative of
overruling its own prior decisions.”). Thus, we hold that
Congress did not violate the nondelegation doctrine by
making the Commission’s policy statements binding in
§ 3582(c)(2) proceedings.
                              B
    Kheyre also argues that Congress violated the separation
of powers by giving the Commission authority to impose a
binding limitation on courts’ discretion in § 3582(c)(2)
proceedings. This challenge also fails.
    The Supreme Court has long recognized that “the scope
of judicial discretion with respect to [imposing] a sentence
is subject to congressional control.” Mistretta, 488 U.S. at
                        USA V. KHEYRE                       11


364. Indeed, Congress has the authority to set determinate
punishments “without giving the courts any sentencing
discretion” at all. Chapman v. United States, 500 U.S. 453,
467 (1991). Accordingly, we have held that § 1B1.10, which
Congress has made binding on the courts, “does not offend
separation of powers principles because it is simply the
result of an exercise of Congress’s power to control the
scope of judicial discretion regarding sentencing.” Davis,
739 F.3d at 1226. Davis forecloses Kheyre’s separation of
powers attack.
                              IV
    Kheyre next argues that the district court wrongly relied
on the commentary to § 1B1.10 to find it had no authority to
reduce his sentence. As noted above, district courts may not
reduce a sentence “to a term that is less than the minimum of
the amended guideline range.” § 1B1.10(b)(2)(A). The
amended guideline range is determined by taking the
original guideline calculation and making the changes
dictated by the retroactive amendment. § 1B1.10(b)(1).
“[A]ll other guideline application decisions” must be left the
same. Id.
     However, Application Note 1(A) to § 1B1.10 says that
the amended guideline range “is determined before
consideration of any departure . . . or any variance.” When
it ruled on Kheyre’s sentence reduction motion, the district
court did not factor the “two-level” downward departure
from his original sentencing into its calculation. Instead, the
district court calculated the amended guideline range based
on an offense level of 35 and criminal history category III,
which resulted in an amended range of 210–262 months. If
it had included the “two-level” downward departure from
Kheyre’s original sentencing, his amended guideline range
12                         USA V. KHEYRE


would have been 168–210 months. 5 Given his 180-month
prison sentence, that would make him eligible for a reduction
of up to 12 months.
   Kheyre contends that the decision to depart is a
“guideline application decision[]” within the meaning of
§ 1B1.10(b)(1), which means the departure should have been
applied. He further argues that, after Kisor v. Wilkie, 588
U.S. 558 (2019), courts cannot defer to Application Note
1(A)’s exclusion of departures because § 1B1.10(b)(1)’s text
is unambiguous: it says that all “guideline application
decisions” from the original sentencing are “unaffected”
when calculating “the amended guideline range that would
have been applicable to the defendant” had the amendment
been in effect at the time of sentencing.
   The parties dispute whether Kheyre preserved this issue.
We assume without deciding that de novo review applies.
See United States v. Kirilyuk, 29 F.4th 1128, 1133 (9th Cir.
2022) (“We review the district court’s interpretation of the
Sentencing Guidelines de novo.”).
    The Commission’s commentary to the Guidelines is
treated as “an agency’s interpretation of its own legislative
rules.” United States v. Trumbull, 114 F.4th 1114, 1117 (9th
Cir. 2024). Thus, courts apply Kisor “to determine whether
to defer to the commentary’s interpretation of a Guideline.”
Id. at 1117–18. Under Kisor, a court defers to commentary
only if, in relevant part, the Guideline “is genuinely
ambiguous after exhausting all the traditional tools of
construction.” Id. at 1118 (citation modified) (quoting
Kisor, 588 U.S. at 574–79). These tools include the

5
 A two-level reduction would have given Kheyre a final offense level of
33 and a criminal history category of III.
                        USA V. KHEYRE                        13


Guidelines’ “text, structure, history, and purpose.” Kisor,
588 U.S. at 575.
    Thus, following Kisor, we start with the Commission’s
definition of “departure,” which is a term of art used
throughout the Guidelines Manual. A “departure” is the
“imposition of a sentence outside the applicable guideline
range or of a sentence that is otherwise different from the
guideline sentence.”         § 1B1.1, comment. (n.1(F)(i))
(emphases added). Likewise, a “downward departure” is a
departure “that effects a sentence less than a sentence that
could be imposed under the applicable guideline range or a
sentence that is otherwise less than the guideline sentence.”
Id. (emphases added). These definitions indicate that the
Commission does not understand a departure to change the
applicable guideline range; instead, a departure results in a
sentence that is explicitly outside the range.
    The use of “departure” elsewhere in the Guidelines
Manual confirms this understanding.            For example,
§ 5K2.0(a)(1), which was the basis for Kheyre’s departure,
says that the court “may depart from the applicable guideline
range” in certain cases. (Emphasis added). This reinforces
the point: when the Commission uses “applicable guideline
range” (or variations on the phrase, such as “the guideline
range applicable to [the] defendant,” as in § 1B1.10(a)(1)),
it does not understand the term to include departures.
Instead, it understands a departure as a decision to impose a
sentence outside the applicable guideline range. This is how
the Commission has understood the relationship between
“departures” and the “applicable guideline range” since its
founding. See, e.g., U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, Guidelines
Manual § 1A2 (Oct. 1987) (“The sentencing judge must
select a sentence from within the guideline range. If,
however, a particular case presents atypical features, . . . the
14                       USA V. KHEYRE


judge [may] depart from the guidelines and sentence outside
the range.” (Emphases added)).
    The interpretation is further supported by § 1B1.10
itself. Subsection (b)(2)(B) allows courts to reduce a
sentence below the amended guideline range in one
circumstance: when the original sentence was below the
applicable guideline range “pursuant to a government
motion to reflect the defendant’s substantial assistance to
authorities.” Such a motion is one for a downward departure
under § 5K1.1. 6 If the “guideline range applicable to [the]
defendant” were determined after all departures were
included, this exception would be superfluous. That the
Commission included an exception to subsection (b)(2)(A)’s
hard floor based on a single departure provision indicates
that the “guideline range applicable to [the] defendant” does
not include all departures from the original sentencing.
    Kheyre’s argument has some appeal because the parties
and the court couched the departure’s extent in terms of
offense level—that is, as a “two-level reduction.” While
practitioners may find it helpful to use guideline-related
terminology to describe the extent of departures, particularly
when negotiating plea agreements, that practice does not
affect how the Guidelines operate: a departure is a sentence
imposed outside of the applicable guideline range, which is
determined based on the offense level and criminal history
category calculated in accordance with Chapters Two
through Four of the Guidelines Manual. Accord § 1B1.1
(directing courts to calculate the applicable guideline range



6
 The exception does not apply here because Kheyre’s departure was
based on § 5K2.0, not § 5K1.1.
                       USA V. KHEYRE                       15


and determine the associated sentencing requirements and
options before considering if a departure is warranted).
    Applying Kisor, we hold that § 1B1.10 unambiguously
does not include departures when calculating the amended
guideline range. Thus, the district court did not err in
calculating Kheyre’s amended guideline range without
reference to the departure awarded at his original sentencing.
We hold that because Kheyre’s 180-month sentence was
below his amended guideline range, he was ineligible for a
reduction. See § 1B1.10(b)(2)(A). As Kheyre was not
eligible for a reduction, we need not reach his challenge to
the district court’s alternative holding.
                              V
    We conclude that: (1) Congress violated neither the
nondelegation doctrine nor the separation of powers by
making the Commission’s policy statements binding on
courts in § 3582(c)(2) proceedings; and (2) based on
§ 1B1.10’s text without reference to Application Note 1(A),
courts do not include departures when calculating the
amended guideline range in § 3582(c)(2) proceedings. The
district court thus properly found Kheyre was not eligible for
a reduction in sentence.
   AFFIRMED.
